From: IN%"heather@skyquest2.net"  "Heather Bailey" 18-OCT-1999 00:05:03.68
To:   IN%"<Undisclosed-Recipient:@svr1.skyquest2.net;>"
CC:
Subj: j: hairy demons


i had sort of a breakthrough this weekend. and it wasn't a whole lot
of fun. but i'm feeling a lot better right now. the question is where
to go next. i knew that things were kind of building up and that
something was about to burst. my uneasiness about changing majors
helped to give me extra energy to get over the hump and into this new
stuff (or perhaps it's really just old and i've been doing the same
dance and am only now just beginning to see it for what it's been).

i tend to doodle a lot in class. this is really sort of a new habit
born of trying to channel nervous energy. i only really started it
last year. at first it was interlinking patterns of straight lines,
but recently i've been doing interlinking patterns of abstract shapes
(which has progressed into making larger patterns and pictures with
those interlinking shapes). but the other morning in class, i had this
stark picture in my head. it was from a very vivid imagery i had over
a year ago in a conference with connie. i saw myself as a little girl
sitting next to a pool of water (like a pond) with my feet dangling in
the water and sitting next to me in the very same position as myself
was a hairy monster and that was my demon. it had crawled out of the
pool (which i suppose i could label as my unconscious or my the "pool
of issues") and we were both kind of exhausted from that struggle (my
keeping it from coming out and so forth). and now we were just sitting
next to the pool and wondering what to do next because we had realized
that the fighting was a dead end and something new had to happen next.
it was kind of peaceful because we had realized that we were in this
thing together and had to do something together to get out of it
all...so we had a meaningful look in each other's eyes and had a
moment of understanding between us...of the frustration, exhaustion,
and realization of our plight.

now all of this sounds kind of long, but it was really just a flash of
an image that contained a lot of meaning (and it just takes a long
time to explain). but that same image struck me in class while i was
doodling. so i drew that image at the bottom of my paper. and then i
just looked at it. i wish that i could scan it in and send it out for
people to see...because the drawing itself says something that i can't
put words to.

but the urge to draw it and then seeing hte picture itself kind of
left me unsettled. but there wasn't anything to do with it at the time
so i just kind of left that up in the air and was waiting for
something else to come along to make it all click. that was on
thursday and it took till the evening saturday for it to finally hit
me (maybe my intuition is getting slow in my old age)...and boy did it
hit when it did.

i got angry with david for a random comment that he had made. in
itself, it wasn't big or something to really blow up about, but i had
all of this stuff that i was sitting on so it got blown out of
proportion andi was really upset about it. and that was the final
thing that made things click. i saw that the demon was me -- I AM A
BIG HAIRY DEMON. it was a big step to make the admission that it was
*my* demon a year ago, but to see that it wasn't really separate, but
that it was really *me* was quite a shock (and yet hard to put into
words that can quite explain the situation).

but the drama unfolded just a little bit more and i saw that i had
been externally living out this internal denial and struggle through
my relationships with other people (especially intimate and romantic
relationships). it wasn't "oh poor me, i get treated bad for no
apparent reason and if people would just be nice, then things would be
ok." what was really going on was that i was letting people know that
this is how i wanted to be treated. through my choice of partners and
through subtle encouragements of those people's behaviors, i was able
to shape them into being my demon so that i wouldn't have to own it
and face it in myself.

and i did this because it's easier to point fingers at other people.  it's
easier to place the blame someplace else.  it's easier to say that everyone
else should have to change so that i don't have to.  and i *do* want
everyone else to change so that i don't have to.  i want someone to save me
from myself so that i won't have to face it and change something that i've
been running from for all my life.

the demon is my self perception. i see myself as of very little worth.
i have very little love for myself. and the constant abuse thati heap
on myself (either through the acceptance of external circumstances or
through an equally hostile internal environment that i create) makes
it even harder to face myself and "look myself in the eyes." the
reason that i don't tell people that it's not okay for them to treat
me in a particular way is because i don't believe that it would be a
true statement and i certainly don't treat myself any better. i don't
believe that i'm worth being treated any better. and to justify that
belief i create social situations that keep the pattern going.

other people don't need to change, i need to change. and that change
has to come from the inside out. i need to really look at myself and
start to build from the ground up. sheila bush gave me a book a while
back called SOMETHING MORE: EXCAVATING YOUR AUTHENTIC SELF. i started
to read it, but then i bounced out and just never got back to it. and
now i know why. it was pointing at the very thing that i was doing
everything in my power to run away from. but it's time to get down to
my authentic self. i have to change how i feel about myself. and from
there i can let people know how i want to be treated and what i will
allow as far as treatment of me. and that will be because i know what
i'm okay with (not just in an intellectual sense, but from a deep gut
sense that is also fully manifested in a conscious sense...where it's
all integrated and working together). i've been going at it completely
backwards before this. i saw it as if people treat me a certain way,
it's because that's how they see me. instead of looking at it as this
is who i am and people andi show that by standing up for myself, by
respecting myself and letting others know how i feel about myself (and
what i how i will allow myself to be treated).

i'm looking at finally starting to value myself. i'm making my first
steps at feeling solid in myself and becoming really knowledgable in
who i am. before this i kept wanting to do as much growing as i could
and to go on with life while avoiding this. i thought thati could just
leave this hole and never have to look at it or deal with it... just
build around it. but if anything is going to be built, then it has to
be built from this place or else it won't last.

it's also sort of an odd realization that all of the work that i did
at tech was just the preliminary to this. all of the personal
development workshops and exercises that i did were just learning
tools and practices leading up to this. the real work didn't start
till now. everything is vastly different from this point forward. and
this won't just be a change in a part of myself where one area of my
life shifts; it will be a fundamental change that will make me into a
very different person.

maybe i'm making more of this than it is. but from here, this looks
like this is my most central issue and all other things branch out
from here. it's like i haven't really seen before now. i haven't
really heard before now. i haven't really felt until now. how could i
have without this part of me? how could i have if i was surpressing
this and cutting it off from my experience?

i had a night full of talking that hurts. david pointed out several
other aspects that i hadn't considered. if i let this go, not only
will things change and i'll have to face that i'm a new person, but
maybe things will be boring. if i hold onto this, then i can feel
special and important. things will be exciting if i keep myself in
this drama. i don't have that guarantee if i move on to something new.
i won't be in control of what happens next. i'll just have to take it
as it comes. i'll have to let go of my martyr complex.

and so now the work starts. i'm not real sure where to start, and i
know that it's going to be tough and will take a lot of time. so i'm
not expecting to be done with this by the end of the week or anything.
;). but the sadness and despair had finally gained a sort of critical
mass and on the other side of the pop (well, after a couple of hours
of crying) a very odd thing was born: hope. and it was a different
kind of hope than i remember experiencing. it wasn't like a wish that
i strongly desired or a fantasy with a lot of emotional investment. it
was something quieter and cleaner. i'm very curious about what i'll be
like when i start trying to live up to my potential. i don't see
anything concrete, but it fills me with hope.

so i'm finally starting to grow up. i expect lots of mistakes and pit
falls on the way. and i wanted to say thank you to everyone because i
did this with a lot of help and i'm profoundly grateful. but i mostly
wanted to send this out to let everyone know that today is my birthday
because i wasn't alive till now. something is very different and it's
me.

love
heather

