From: TTU::AJB5383      "Aaron Bibb v. 2.0 - Now Y2K Compliant!" 24-NOV-
1999 18:28:47.41
To:   COR MENTOR
CC:
Subj: Article I just wrote for NHR - Counteracting Political Apathy in
Honors Students

Counteracting Political Apathy in Honors Students
by Aaron Bibb <ajb5383@tntech.edu>


      Recently, I was discussing the upcoming presidential election
with a friend of mine. "I just don't care who wins - it won't make a
difference," he said. "They're all crooked, and no matter who you vote
for, nothing is going to change." While I understood where he was
coming from, it was still disturbing to hear someone voicing such a
hopeless opinion. In a country where most politicians are in the
pockets of corporate interests and political "debate" has been reduced
to a competition for the best sound bite, this attitude is all too
prevalent.

      Most students that I have talked to about politics share views
similar to this. They don't see the importance of their votes, and
they believe that politics is a glorified three-ring circus. The
recent Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky ordeal only strengthened this
cynicism; all that many people saw in that was a partisan war, with no
real relation to how our country is run. They see politicians
campaigning on trite slogans, with not much substance to their
campaigns. They see Congress votes practically divided down party
lines, and they see pork barrel politics determining the way their
country is run.

      They also see so much to change in their government, but what
they don't see is a way to make that change. It's an old saw that "the
worst cynic is a disillusioned idealist," and that is true for much
student apathy. However, many students are apathetic just because they
have never really considered themselves as a part of the government of
this country. I think that both of these kinds of apathy and cynicism
can be counteracted, and I think that honors programs can have a large
part in that.

      One of the chief goals of honors programs, in my opinion, should
be helping students develop into responsible, productive citizens.
Combating this pervasive political apathy is essential to this goal -
if students do not believe that they have any influence in the
political process, our political system can only suffer for it.
Whatever your views on the current state of political affairs are, it
is only through participation in the system that it can be improved.

      There is much that honors programs can do to fight this apathy.
The single most important thing that can be done is to keep students
informed of what's going on around them! If you have some sort of
official honors space, such as an honors lounge or office, set aside a
bulletin board for posting of political information, such as newspaper
articles, flyers and brochures of political organizations, and
notifications of upcoming political events. Perhaps set this aside as
space for your students to post information about political issues
that are important to them. This would also be a good place to keep
students informed about current legislation on the national, state,
and local level.

      Your honors program's web page is also a good place to keep your
students up to date. Consider adding a link to a page like The
Electronic Policy Network (http://epn.org), which keeps track of
current political events and issues. It describes its goal as "to
provide trenchant policy analysis to the general public, so that
citizens, students, legislators, advocacy groups, educators, and
researchers may easily keep pace with the issues that matter." It's
also important to let your students know who is representing them -
consider linking to federal, state, and local governmental web pages
(a list is included at the bottom of this article).

      One way to get students interested in political issues is to
sponsor debates. One or two debates a semester on the current
political hot topics can give your honors students a good sense of
what's going on. Try to look at not just the national level, but at
the state and local level - often issues of a more local nature will
affect the students more directly. You can also sponsor a weekly or
monthly discussion group - for each meeting, pick a topic for
discussion, either a current issue or an historical one, and have each
student research and examine an aspect of it before the meeting. For
more literary students, a group could meet once a month and discuss a
political science book.

      Professors, especially in political science and history, will
often jump at the chance to discuss politics and current events with
bright, questioning students. Having knowledgeable faculty members
working with your students can provide guidance and experience to
their endeavors. Consider holding honors forums in which professors
can give a presentation on political issues. If you form a book or
discussion group, consider asking a faculty member to mentor the
group. Perhaps you could even create a one-time honors class to
examine issues of politics and political activism. Here at Tennessee
Technological University, our Honors Program recently concluded a very
successful colloquium entitled "Social Movements and Political
Activism." For this class, each student was required to work on an
issue of his or her choice, in addition to examining past social and
political movements. The students' issues ranged from increasing
university library funding to instituting a state income tax to prison
reform. The students left the class with an enhanced sense of their
own political power and the change they can help enact in the system.

      Once your students are interested in the political process, try
spreading beyond the honors program. Consider sponsoring campus-wide
debates, discussions, and forums on political topics and upcoming
elections. Organize voter registration drives, both on and off campus.
Encourage your students to become involved with your university's
student government. But above all, just get people to care! Our system
has flaws, but the beauty of the American system of government is that
the people have the power to change what they see as wrong and unjust
in that government. Idealism must be tempered with realism, of course
- we must enter politics with realistic expectations. But the spirit
of idealism and action must be cultivated in students if there is to
be an escape from the current morass of cynicism and apathy.


Addresses of Federal and State Web Pages

The House of Representatives: http://www.house.gov/
The United States Senate: http://www.senate.gov/
The White House: http://www.whitehouse.gov/
The Federal Judicial Center: http://www.fjc.gov/
Your state government: http://www.state.XX.us/ (where XX is your state's
      two-letter postal abbreviation)

