From: Harry Jaquess <harryjaquess@multipro.com>
(*) BASED UPON MY <40> YEARS OF DEALING WITH THE PUBLIC---I BELIEVE THE
FOLLOWING IS TRUE.

The futon lady insisted I hear her entire spiel. There
were, she explained in a savvy singsong, many choices.
Varying styles, frame stains and mattresses.

You could, for instance, purchase a futon frame that
looked a lot like teak with magazine racks on both ends
and a mattress that would withstand daily use as a sofa.
Then you could select a mattress cover from a wall full
of different patterns, materials and prices.

I listened, but longed for the Good Old Days when
buying a futon meant leaving the store with a mattress
filled with cotton batting and tied up with rope.

I chose the simplest thing I could find was, after all, a
bed for a spare room and an occasional guest  and the
saleswoman said she  would check her warehouse to
make sure my choice was available.

The "warehouse" turned out to be a trailer in the parking
lot. I backed the pickup to the mobile storage, and a
young fellow threw a torn box in the bed.

"Is it all there?" I asked, looking suspiciously at the
holey box. "Absolutely," he said. "I checked each box."

You can guess the rest of the story. After a long drive
home I discovered that none of the bolts and screws was
in the box, and without them, 1,000 choices in color and
style didn't matter one whit.

I thought of that recent experience when I read a New
York Times story about incompetents. A Cornell
psychology professor has found that the world is full of
incompetent people, and that most of them do not
suspect they are incompetent.

"One reason the ignorant also tend to be the blissfully
self-assured," the story said, "is that the skills required
for competence often are the same skills necessary to
recognize competence."

Now you may know what they say about the social
sciences. Anything "discovered"  in the social sciences is
usually either obvious or untrue.

I think this incompetency business is obvious. Have you
ever heard a caller to talk radio who was either witty or
politically astute? Why does the most off-key singer in
a congregation sing the loudest?

Some of us question ourselves at every turn, which the
Cornell psychologist believes is a good thing. We are
wracked with reasonable doubt about our intellect,
appearance, talent and literacy. We know how little we
know.

Not the incompetent. He has no clue. Therefore, he cracks
the most jokes, offers the most political observations,
gives tips on everything from stocks to home
furnishings.

But there's another fairly obvious thing the story didn't
mention. And that's the fact that in today's world,
incompetency is frequently rewarded. Maybe those who
know little and think they know lots have every reason
to be confident of success. In this society, they are sure
to rise to the top.

Self assurance seems infinitely more useful than actual
knowledge in the work world of 2000. The glib have a
real advantage in a shallow society. They call and run
meetings, dress for success, and write mean memos.
They look and sound satisfying to bosses who too often
wouldn't recognize a real workhorse if he showed up
and neighed.

You get ahead at Futon World by making a sale, not by
making sure the nuts and bolts are in the box.

In the social world, the same is true. Confidence is a lot
more important at a dinner party than intellect or
practical ability. A bon vivant beats a plumber or a scholar every time.

Computers, of course, exponentially compound
incompetence, magnify and amplify stupid mistakes.
Incompetents love them.

So, if the Cornell study is true, and my corollary holds,
we can look forward to a new century in this old world
run by confident, well-paid incompetents.

The screws are loose. They're not in the box.

Rheta Grimsley Johnson is a columnist for the Atlanta
Journal Constitution and King Features Syndicate.


