From gte410r@prism.gatech.edu Wed Jun 14 13:03:23 2000
Date: Sun, 11 Jun 2000 23:39:40 -0400
From: "Lewis Baumstark, Jr." <gte410r@prism.gatech.edu>
To: mentor@CS.UTK.EDU, honstudy@tntech.edu
Subject: MHB -- waking up journal

I’m not sure if I’ve ever written out my waking up account before.
I’ve played it out in my head many times, but doubt I’ve said much
about it to anyone. Let’s see... The time frame was 95-96 or so. I was
on co-op and miserable. I hated my job, hated the politics going on.
And then I realized what I hated most-- people just weren’t nice to
each other. Decisions and ultimatums were made from on high that made
life plain yucky for the rank and file employees. I tended to be out
of the direct line of fire, but I heard the masses when they
complained. I realized that empathy, something I more or less had done
out of habit for several years, wasn’t necessarily universal, or at
the very least, some people were just too busy to use it. And I
decided that’s not how I wanted to live my life.

At the same time, I was sharing an apartment with one of the
newly-hired engineers at the plant. A nice enough guy, we got along
well. But his main source of entertainment was to plop in front of the
television every evening after he got home, which I had no problem
with, except that I usually didn’t join him. I had books to read,
email to catch up on, piano to play, and generally just liked to keep
to myself. Eventually, though, I got the impression he didn’t
understand why I wasn’t a tv person (one of those intuitive "reading"
made up of a combination of body language/facial expressions, scraps
of conversations, etc...) Maybe I was projecting, but no matter, it
prompted the question in my mind of why I didn’t do much tv. And it
occurred to me that it was a distraction, something to make one
forget, to just numb out. When I was most critical, I saw it as just
passing time until death.

Somewhere in all of this, I simply decided I wanted something more. I
didn’t know what IT was, but figured I should start looking. All I had
to start with is that I wanted to be more than just another 8-to-5
wage slave. I wanted to be involved in my life, instead of just
letting it run its course on its own.

