From: TTU::MTM3106      "Matthew T Mcbee"  8-JUN-2000 16:05:47.56
To:   KAP1101, CHOOD
CC:
Subj: j: mother projections 1 -- background info

6/8/00

The past six months have been a period in which I've been seeing some
of the mother projections that I'd projected onto you and have seen
some of them fall off. The process started over Christmas break when I
started realizing that there was something very fucked up about our
realtionship. If I'd had to put my finger on it, I would have said
that I was dependent on you. I was, very much so. And in the process
of understanding why that was, I had to go back and look at the way
that I got involved in mentor.

When I originally got involved in mentor, i dove right in. I was
expeding *vast* amounts of energy in my mentor work, even though I'm
not sure that what I was doing then was real mentor work. It was part
of my process, and it was where I had to start. Mentor filled a lot of
my needs at once, which is one big reason that I put so much energy
into it. First of all, there was the intuitive "rightness" that said
"I belong here." That is still in place, fairly strongly. Then there
were the specialness needs that were filled by

being asked to join a very special group, especially because I was
*asked* to join that group. Specialness needs appear to be based on
fear, because why else would you need to be better than other people?
Being recognized was nice. There were more needs going on there that I
can't get my finger on yet.

More importantly, I believe, were the needs that my relationship with
you were filling. I was no longer a Christian, so I felt that that
code of conduct (10 C's) was no longer binding. But then, there was
this overwhelming need to be "good" that I've always had. I think the
need to be good is actually the need to please my mother, which is
actually the need to be held in high regard by my mother. When I was a
child, I vividly remember when I started using curse words. I wanted
my classmates to not think that I was a "momma's boy" or a
"goody-goddy."

Aaron just came in here and turned on music. ARRGGGGHHH. It's really
hard for me to stay deep when this music is on. I just asked him to
turn it down. *deep breath* Okay, that's better.

Anyway, the first thing I started using was "God." You know, you're
not supposed to take the Lord's name in vain, but I figured that that
wasn't as bad as using real cuss words like "shit" or "damn." I felt
guilty every time I said "god", and sometimes I would sit up at night
and pray for forgiveness. I also knew better than to say it around my
parents or even tell them that I was saying it. I was probably in
second or third grade at this point. I needed to be liked by my
classmates, and I figured that one reason why they didn't like me was
because I was such a wimp. I wanted to appear tougher, stronger, both
so maybe I wouldn't get picked on so much, and in an attempt to get
people to like me more. I remember those recesses. I would spend a lot
of time on the playground by myself. I felt like I didn't have any
friends, and I belived that something was wrong with me since I didn't
have any friends. As time went on, I began to use more and more
"severe" cuss words. I still sometimes felt guilty about that, but not
as guilty as I had felt before. Before long, I used all the cuss words
I could think of in an effort to be liked by my peers. I think the
guilt stayed with me, though. I knew what the Bible said, and I knew
what my parents had said, but I just didn't do it. I did what I wanted
to do instead.

Junior high was really difficult for me because I still hadn't learned
how to play the chameleon game very well. I was too hampered by
anxiety to pull off a good act. During 9th grade, I got involved with
my first social "circle" -- a group of friends, male and female, that
hung out together all of the time. I met my first girlfriend, Robyn,
through those friends, and I went through the most severe depression
of my life with them. Several of us were depressed at that time, but I
don't think anyone was as depressed as I was. I'd talk to my friends
about wanting to commit suicide on a regular basis, both as a way to
get attention and a cry for help. There were a few brief periods in
which I really did want to die. I used to walk up to the dam about a
mile away from my house and stand on the edge, several hundred feet
above the concrete below.

I drop rocks off and time them as they fell, trying to figure out how
fast they were going when they hit the bottom. Sometimes I'd actually
climb over the rail, and stand over the lip. I was almost daring God
to push me off with an unexpected breeze or a cramp or sudden loss of
balance, which thankfully never came. Standing up there was a way to
clear my head, though. I'd also go sit across the street on the boat
dock over there. In the winter, when the lake was really low, I'd sit
on the end of the dock which was about 12 feet off the ground. It was
wierd, it was like looking into a tunnel, the way the banks looked.
There's be glass bottles that I'd break. One day, me and my sister
were over there and some geese were swimming around. We went home,
grabbed an old box of Frosted Mini-Wheats, and began to feed the
geese. The geese were very trusting, soon they'd eat out of my hands.
I grabbed one of the geese, turned it so that it's ass was facing away
from me (it began shitting green goose shit all over the place) and
threw it out into the water. It landed upside down, and struggled to
right itself. It struggled and struggles, and it fianlly did, but its
foot was damamged in the process. It couldn't swim in a straight line
after that. God, I feel so guilty about that. I was hurting so bad,
but that's no excuse to hurt animals. I don't know why I did it, and I
didn't know then. MAybe it was to have power over something, maybe it
was a realease of pent up anger, I don't know.

During that period of depression, I discovered how to inahle various
household substances for a brief high. I punched the floor of my
living room and broke my knuckle, and my right hand was in a cast for
a couple of weeks. During that time, I carried around a permanent
marker so that people could sign my cast. One day in science class, I
put my head down directly over the marker and began quietly inahling
through my nose. After a few minutes, I began to feel liek wa s
floating. It didn't last long, and it was very suprisng. The first
time, I did it out of curiosity and to appear cool, you know, breaking
the rules, taking risks. Although I was very much terrified of
authority and an obeyer at heart, I wanted to show people that I was a
rebel. As the depression got worse, I began to use inhalants more
often. It was the only time that I did not experience the pain, fear,
and rage that permeated my existance. My friends also began to do
inhalants. I didn't know that they were that dangerous. I'd had drug
classes at school, in Excel, and in DARE, but none of them ever
mentioned inhalants. During my darkest hour, I'd ride home from school
fighting off tears in the car the whole way, then I'd go directly to
my room, shut the door, lay down on the floor, and sniff glue until I
passed out for a while. I don't know how long I was out, in all
likelihood it wasn't long, but it was relief. I really, really wanted
to talk to my parents about what was going on, but I had to maintain
the illusion that I was a normal, successful person. I couldn't bear
the thought of my parents knowing that they'd raised a total loser, so
I tried to pretend to be normal to them. I didn't really talk to them
at all. I was scared of my dad, and didn't talk to my mom. I couldn't
risk the rejection. It was too scary. Everything was so scary then,
everything. Just getting out of the car in the morning before school,
I'd be shaking. I had to walk into the gym with all the other early
arrivers and it was so terrifying to know that so many people could
see me.

Sometimes I'd try to hang out by the door until it was time to go to
class, but the teachers would always make me go inside. Going to class
was terrifying. I'd almost panic during the roll-call, because I had
to speak in front of the class. My voice would often crack when I'd
say "here" usually because I was so scared.

Anyway, one day at school Robyn (who would later become my first
girlfriend) has written a note to Lance talking about sniffing glue
(and mentioning my name). I got called to the office late in the day,
and didn't have a clue why. I ran into lance and robyn in the hall and
they told me what had happened. Oh shit, this couldn't be happening.
It seemed surreal. I had to wait in the office for over an hour while
the vice-principal tried to call my mother. That was the longest hour
of my life. Finally, my mother came in. I had to tell her that I'd
been doing drugs. When she asked me why, I told her that I was
depressed and that I was planning on committing suicide in the near
future, and that as such I really didn't care if the drugs were
harming my brain since I was going to be dead soon anyway. My mom was
shocked. She started crying and asked me why I hadn't said anything to
her. All I could do was dumbly shrug my shoulders.

After that, we went to my grandmother's house. I acted like nothing
had happened when I arrived, went to the guest bedroom, and listened
to my mom tell my aunt and grandmother what had happened. I felt like
utter shit. There are no words to describe the shame I felt at that
point. Maybe I cried a little, maybe i didn't, I don't know. Then we
went home. I don't remember much more about that day. I remember
talking to my dad. He just seemed angry. My parents removed all of the
inhalable stuff from my room and the house and told me that I was
going to go with my mom to see a psychiatrist. That night, I went to
go to the bathroom. As I walked past the living room, I noticed that
the light was on. I looked inside and saw my mom on the floor looking
through my babybook. She was crying. I felt so bad. I went to hug her,
but she was so distant. I knew that she loved the Matthew that I was
when I was a child, when we still talked, before I was afraid. She
didn't love *me*, the person hugging her, the person that despeerately
needed her at that point in my life but could not find the courage to
reach out. I'm crying a little bit now, just thinking about it. I just
remembered something that my mom said to me when I was a kid. This is
important. My behavior has started getting worse, and she said to me,
"I don't know what has happened to you, but you've changed. I like the
old Matthew a lot better."

After that, I really didn't think of suicide as an option anymore. I
discovered music, especially Nirvana. Nirvana was very theraputic
because in Kurt Cobain, I heard someone who hurt the way I did. It was
so comofrting. I felt like an alien species, and all of a sudden I
grokked that there was at least one other person in the world like me.
Just that knowledge was wonderful news. Kurt's songs were somehow
about the wounding he'd experienced, with all the pain, fear, rage,
and hope mixed together into a furious blast of sound. I loved it.

I've got to go now.  I'll keep writing about this.

matt


Hey, hey, We're all watching you,
Oh, baby, fly away to Malibu.
Cry to the angels, And let them swallow you,
Go and part the sea, yeah, in Malibu.

      -Hole, "Malibu"

