From: TTU::KAP1101      "Kristin Pierce"  7-JUN-2000 22:00:23.08
To:   JOURNAL
CC:
Subj: j: on waking up and mindfulness

7 June 2000
j: on waking up and mindfulness

This is my attempt at "catching up" with some of the assignments that
connie has given us in the past few months. i'm not going to try and
go back to pick up all the ones that have already passed. i'd rather
begin here and try to do the ones now that i can.

Waking up for me had to be a very gradual thing. to really say that
you've woken up, you have to define the term first. to me, the
distinction between waking up and "sleeping" was the feeling that
there was something wrong with me. i'm pretty sure that every teenager
goes through something where they think they're different, somehow
wrong in some way. i've almost always felt like that. i can remember
feeling that way in elementary school. i was always the awkward one,
the one that stood out because i'd done something unexpected, not
normal. i really didn't register it in the moment though. it was
always in retrospect that i realized i'd done something that was
stupid, not normal. maybe i should be conceited here and say that i am
just eccentric, but i'm not. waking up means that i realize that i
*am* different than other people, but at the same time i realize that
i'm still connected to them.

waking up was realizing that there were certain things in my life that
had to be questioned. i've been questioning things for as long as i
can remember.

one of my earliest memories is of my father telling me to "ask
questions because it's the only way you'll understand something." i
questioned the validity of christianity. i'm still questioning it, and
now i'm questioning why i questioned it. in an objective way, i can
see christianity as a viable option for faith. but in a very
subjective, emotional way, i cannot connect to it. i truly feel that
it is a road closed to me, and i am waking up to the possibility that
i closed that road myself when i rejected it before i even gave it a
chance. even while i am aware of this possibility, i cannot let go of
the fact that i do not want to pursue christianity in an unadulterated
form. i've got to do it my way.

waking up was knowing that i have problems with control. i have to
know things. i don't have to do anything with the knowledge, but i
want to know things. i hoard it miserly, and i glory in it. i want
more of this knowledge. i know that this is one of my faults. waking
up was realizing that i have bad points, that i am not a perfect
person, nor am i a good person. i am merely a person. i can see my
faults and try to fix them, or deal with them as best i can, but if i
can't fix them, then i live with them. big revelation: i'm human, and
i'm not perfect. i'm also not always right, though i try to be and i
want to be all the time.

to put it in simple terms, waking up is process by which you learn to
see what is really there, inside you and outside of you. it is the
process by which an infant starts to realize that they are not the
center of the world, and it is the process by which i realize that my
parents are not centered around me; they had lives before me, they
have lives now, and they will have lives in the future that will be
connected but separate from mine. i learn to see, either by a sudden
insight or by gradual awakening, that what i thought was there is not
really there. it's like pointilism, a style of painting. when you
stand far away, about 20 feet, the picture looks very smooth. but when
you get really close, about 6 inches away, you realize that what you
thought were all of these nice, smooth colors are really tiny
dots...each one of them a separate color that blends with the next to
produce an entirely different shade of whatever color the small points
are.

mindfulness is a term that is bandied about quite often. i've probably
heard it at least twice in the past week, and i haven't even been in
cookeville. i hear it even more when i'm there. i remember last summer
trying to read deMello's book and struggle with the definitions of
"awareness" and "awake" and "mindful" and "waking up" and the
distinctions between the terms.

mindfulness is something that i think is used when/as you wake up. at
first, waking up is unconscious. it has to be...you're not really
aware of what's happening to you. after awhile, though, you can start
forcing yourself to wake up, to open up, more. you do it by making
yourself vigilant. you set triggers in your head. you say, "if i do X,
then i will alert myself." sort of a passive alarm system. if you do
X, then you say, "dammit. i did it again." so that you will stop doing
it. it's still pretty passive though because you're still learning how
to use it. you're aware some of the time, but you're not aware all of
the time. after some more time, you start getting better at watching
yourself. your mind becomes a bit more active...you can catch yourself
before you do something...you catch the thought before it translates
into behavior. when you get really good, you are aware of what's going
on in your head all the time. it's not really a conscious effort,
though. it's become so second nature that you don't have to work at it
anymore. you just do it. you're aware of your surroundings, you're
aware of your thoughts. you see what is around you and what is inside
of you--head and body.

i think that mindfulness is inherently a fuzzy term. you can't really
nail it down as a definite term. it means someting different to
everyone that uses the term. when i say mindfulness, i associate it
with watchfulness...knowing what is going on, being observant. this
includes your effect on other people. you can tell what you are doing
to other people. i think that one of the main misconceptions
associated with my picture of mindfulness is that i automatically
assume empathy to be a part of it. this doesn't have to be so. you can
have mindfulness and not be empathic (empathetic). if you're focused
more inward mindfully, you can ignore what's going on inside other
people. this can make you hurt them when you don't really mean to.

i digress....

i think i've outtalked this subject. mindfulness is still something
that i'm trying to nail down for myself. i don't have a good
definition for it yet that would really apply to other people. i just
know that when i'm being mindful, i tend to realize things about
myself that i would normally miss because i'm not really paying
attention to anything. i notice things about other people, being upset
or being uncomfortable or whatever, more. i am more deliberate in my
actions and i consider more the possible outcomes of my actions.

thanks for reading.
