From: IN%"elw@eckhart.wc.tntech.edu"  "elijah wright" 16-APR-1999 14:00:37.42
To:   IN%"chood@tntech.edu"  "Dr. Connie Hood"
CC:
Subj: article on "waking up"


This article appeared in Whole Earth Review issue #75.



----------------------------------------------------------------------------
----

Charley Tart on Consensus Trance:
<SLAP> <SLAP> Wake up!

By Howard Rheingold (also here)

The relationship between the use of language and the induction of trance
states might be one of the keys to understanding life in the last years of
the technology millenium. What if we're all in a trance, and have been
given hypnotic suggestions to ignore the evidence that we are in a trance?
As we stumble around, bedazzled, enormous machines eat the earth. How
would we treat people who try to tell us that we need to wake up? Ask
Charley Tart, Ph.D. As Professor of Psychology at the University of
California, Davis, where he has taught, conducted research, and written
books for the past 26 years, Charles Tart, Ph.D., qualifies as a tweedcoat
and even a whitecoat. He is a member in good standing of the science cult,
and his down to earth, low-key presentation lends an unexpected insider
punch to his statements about the science cult's blind spots -- and every
human's blind spots. He thinks of himself as a scientist, not a guru,
working in a field that is underpopulated despite it's importance. It is
underpopulated because research into consciousness is dangerous to an
experimental psychologist's career, and because it isn't easy to do the
kind of research that can get the attention of the orthodoxy. Tart's most
recent book is Waking Up: Overcoming the Obstacles to Human Potential.
[...] You can contact Dr. Tart via email: cttart@ucdavis.edu.
       -- Howard Rheingold


States of consciousness, from altered states to the state earthlings call
"normal waking consciousness," have been Charley Tart's specialty for two
decades. Surprisingly, Dr. Tart no longer calls it "normal consciousness,"
and has substituted what he feels to be a more accurate term: consensus
trance. To him, the idea of "normal consciousness" is the kind of
convenient fiction illustrated by the famous folktale of "the emperor's
new clothes." Together, human groups agree on which of their perceptions
should be admitted to awareness (hence, consensus), then they train each
other to see the world in that way and only in that way (hence trance).

In the 1960s, Tart's groundbreaking scientific articles about hypnosis and
dreams appeared in psychological journals, and in 1969 he published a
collection of scientific articles, Altered States of Consciousness,
bringing together laboratory studies of yogins, analysis of the
brain-waves of Zenmasters, research into hypnotically induced dreams,
lucid dreams, mutual hypnosis, and other borderlands of human
consciousness that were beginning to attract scientific attention.

By his account, Charles Tart's childhood interest in his own vivid dream
life -- a wondrous realm that everybody around him declared to be "unreal"
-- was a factor in his decision to become a psychologist. Each night, in
the dream state, he discovered as all children do that he could visit
magical kingdoms and do all manner of miraculous things. And like all
children, when he told his parents about these dreams he was reminded that
such experiences are "figments of the imagination." If all his nocturnal
adventures were not considered to be legitimate reality to the adults he
told about his dreams, what was so special about being awake that made it
more real? And why do people, when awake, seem oblivious of the existence
of that other, magical realm of dream consciousness?

Experimental psychology was the vehicle Tart chose to pursue his questions
about consciousness and reality. Although much of his early research
involved dreaming, he was attracted to the mysterious altered state of
consciousness known as hypnosis. Tart learned from his earliest
experiences as a hypnotist that reality can be influenced far more
strongly by one's state of mind than most people suspect, most of the
time:

"In inducing hypnosis I would sit down with a volunteer who wanted to be
hypnotized," Tart recalled. "We were presumably both normal people. With
our eyes we presumably saw the same room around us that others saw; with
our ears we presumably heard the ordinary sounds in the room. We smelled
what odors were there and felt the solidity of the real objects in the
room."

"Then I began to talk to the subject. Researchers give the style of
talking the special name of 'hypnotic induction procedure,' but basically
it was just talking. The subject was given no drugs, was not in a special
environment, had nothing external done to his brain -- and yet in twenty
minutes I could drastically change the universe he lived in. With a few
words, the subject could not lift his arm. With a few more he heard voices
talking when no one was there. A few more words and he could open his eyes
and see something that no one else could see, or, with the right
suggestion, a real object in plain sight in the room would be invisible to
him."

How can anybody distinguish, then, between dream, hypnotic trance, and
reality? Dehypnotization, the procedure of breaking out of the normal
human state of awareness, according to both mystics and hypnotists, is a
matter of direct mental experience. The method can be learned, and that's
the nutshell description of the esoteric wisdom of the ages.

The clues from hypnosis research, experiments into the influence of
beliefs upon perceptions, and teachings from the mystical traditions, led
Tart to see how normal waking consciousness is the product of a true
hypnotic procedure that is practiced by parents, teachers, and peers,
reinforced by every social interaction, and maintained by powerful taboos.
Consensus trance induction  the process of learning the "normal waking"
state of mind -- is involuntary, and occurs under conditions that give it
far more power than ordinary hypnotists are ever allowed. When infants are
first subjected to the processes that induce consensus trance, they are
all vulnerable and dependent upon their consensus hypnotists, for their
parents are the ones who initiate them into the rules of their culture,
according to the instructions that had been impressed upon them by their
own parents, teachers, and peers.

Among the techniques prohibited to ethical hypnotists but wielded
effectively in the induction of consensus trance are: the enormous amount
of time devoted to the induction (years to a lifetime), the use of
physical force, emotional force, love and validation, guilt, and the
instinctive trust children have for their parents. As they learn myriad
versions of 'the right way to do things' -- and the things not to do --
from their parents, children build and continue to maintain a mental model
of the world, a filter on their reality lens that they learn to perceive
everything through (except partially in dreams). The result leaves most
people in an automatized daze. "It is a fundamental mistake of man's to
think that he is alive, when he has merely fallen asleep in life's waiting
room," is the way Idries Shah, a contemporary exponent of ancient Middle
Eastern mystical psychologies, put it (Seeker After Truth, Octagon Press,
1982).

If humans are indeed on the verge of realizing that we are caught in
illusions while thinking we are perceiving reality, how do we propose to
escape? The answer, Tart has concluded, could come in the form of
"mindfulness training " -- a variety of exercises for elevating awareness
by deliberately paying closer-than-usual attention to the mundane details
of everyday life. Gurdjieff called it "self-remembering," and many flavors
of psychotherapist, East and West, use it. Mindfulness is a skill that can
be honed by the right approach to what is happening right in front of you:
"Be here now" as internal gymnastics. Working, eating, waiting for a
traffic light to change can furnish opportunities for mindfulness. Observe
what you are feeling, thinking, perceiving, don't get hung up on judging
it, just pay attention. Tart thinks this kind of self-observation --
noticing the automatization -- is the first step toward waking up.

Why aren't the psychology departments of every major university working on
the best ways to dehypnotize ourselves?

"We tend to think of consensus consciousness like a clearing in the
wilderness." Tart replied. "We don't know what monsters are out there.
We've made a place that's comfortable and fortified, and we are very
ambivalent about leaving this little clearing for even a moment."

Most of the world's major value systems, Tart contends, are based on an
extraordinary state of consciousness on the part of a prophet, or a group
of people. To Christians, being "born again" is an altered state of
consciousness. Moses heard sacred instructions from a burning bush.
Mohammed received the Koran in a dream. Buddha sat under a tree and woke
up. Most of the values that guide people's lives around the world today
are derived from those extraordinary states of mind.

"If the sources of our values derive from altered-states experiences, and
if we want to have some intelligent control of our destiny, we'd better
not define these states out of existence. They are the vital sources of
life and culture and if we don't really understand altered states we're
going to live a very dispirited life. "

I asked him if he sees a way out of this dilemma of self-reinforcing
institutional and individual trancemanship.

"Yes, I do," he replied. "We are indoctrinated to believe that intellect
is what makes humans great, and emotions are primitive leftovers from our
jungle ancestors that interfere with our marvelous logical minds. It is
possible to train people to base decisions on the appropriate mixture of
emotional, intellectual and body-instinctive intelligence. Compassion and
empathy are emotions, and I agree with the Buddhists that these emotions
are highly evolved, not primitive. With enough training in
self-observation, we can develop a new kind of intelligence to bear on the
world. Everyday life is quite an interesting place if you pay attention to
it."



----------------------------------------------------------------------------
----



