---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Wed, 9 Dec 1998 03:06:34 -0600 (CST)
From: "Elijah L. Wright" <elw@eckhart.ml.org>
To: "Dr. Connie Hood" <chood@tntech.edu>,
    "Mary Kelly Ivanov (MK)" <mki8372@tntech.edu>
Subject: j;  being real


i must be living right.  :)  things in my head are a lot better than i can
ever remember them being.  i feel very stable, here.  i *think* that the
spike is getting grounded, this time.  so that i don't regress back into
being full of shit again, at least not on this axis of living.

i have lots of things to talk about.  and it is complicatedly simple.

the other day i was talking in a journal about the random conversation i'd
had with erin glass and how *much* i had enjoyed the spontanaeity and the
realness of it.  and how it had been an unexpected thing that i could be
really grateful for.

i saw her in the lounge monday night, while they were trying to cram for
their 202h final.  she caught my eye as i was walking past and said
something along the lines of 'i got your email.  i *really* appreciate
that.'  the words didn't matter nearly as much as the level of sincerity
that was behind them.  i stopped, looked straight into her eyes, and told
her that i had really meant it.  and 'thank you.'

sometimes you just get a vibe where you know that you have just done
something that means a lot to someone.  this was one of those kinds of
things.  it was *so* incredibly human.  i think that's what pulled it out
to the front of my mind- that it was Real.

it wasn't just real... it was accepting.  seeing where she is, caring
about it, and just Loving it.  with no 'buts' or 'maybes' or 'if's'
attached to it.


then last night, i walked up to where MK was studying in the
lounge, sat down, and started talking to her.  something weird happened.
i'm not even sure what, anymore.  i should have sat down and written about
it, but i figured that i needed to meditate more than i needed to write it
out.  i have forgotten details that were important, i think.

a general summary would be that the same thing happened that had happened
with talking to erin.  i was *there*, not just listening from afar.
the effects that i was noticing.... my voice had gotten a lot quieter than
normal, my brain wasn't chattering, and i was focused on her.  i was
paying attention, for once.  i was fighting annoyance at not being able to
hear every single word clearly because of the people playing games on the
lounge computers, but other than that it was awesome.

the mental state that i keep tripping into is pretty incredible.  it feels
like raindrops.  big, soft, heavy raindrops.  it isn't a hard type of
state at all.  it feels like what you get after meditation.  but i hadn't
been doing that, so it was just weird.

last night i made a committment to meditate every night.  after i journal,
and before i go to sleep.  the hardest part was doing it the first time.
now i am looking forward to doing it.  it makes me feel better, both for
the sake of the relaxation and because i'm not slacking off in that part
of my life anymore.


tonight i cornered MK again (at the birthday party bash) and started
talking to her.  we modulated from talking about what we were going to do
over the break and what books we were going to read into me listening to
her talk about her life and what she thinks.

hearing what people think and how they feel really matters to me.  i want
to help them if i can.  sometimes i think i can, and sometimes it makes me
incredibly uncomfortable.  sometimes i want to just tell people the truth.
that's the scariest part of it all.. the truth. especially when it hurts
them to know the truth.

the truth gets eerily complicated when you start talking about empathy.

'the truth' isn't necessarily anything factual.  you can give someone
facts and still have it all be false.

the truth *requires* that you love.  that's not a choice, really.  i would
say that factual truth combined with loving is a higher form of truth than
the simple facts.  that combination is more *human* than 'just the facts,
ma'am'...  it seems more real.  when you give someone both sides of the
situation, the analytical and the emotional,  you're portraying a complete
picture of what it is to deal with that issue.

'purification of the motive in the ground of our beseeching'.  :)

one of the things that i'm noticing is that it is easier to tell the truth
to people that i don't have problems with.  i can talk to MK all day long
and not tell a lie.  if i talk to someone that i have more problems with,
though, it gets easier to slant the truth.  it is harder to stay in my
balanced little world/box and be real with them.

the example i have from tonight is david woods.  he's foster's roommate,
and he drives a lot of people crazy.  so we had a room full of people all
making fun and pointing out what about this guy drives them crazy.

that isn't empathy.  that's bullshit.  i feel very guilty that i laughed,
and that i let it go on.  it was wrong.  it feels like a huge lie to allow
people to roll over into their defenses and say, 'oh, i can make fun of
this person because (he is/i'm) not perfect and i need someone to pick
on'. that isn't fair.  i've been that person before.  in high school i was
the person that the theater/drama people thought was really weird.  so
some of them, the less kind, decided that i was a good person to pick at.
i have a particular individual in mind (pat mannle, so i know who i'm
thinking about when i read this again in 5 years), but that doesn't matter
so much as it matters that most of us have been the brunt of some mental
abuse.

i guess it didn't help that i wasn't willing to stand up to that kind of
crap.  i figured it was just my lot in life or something.  one of them
even nicknamed me 'no-ego boy' because i could take so much abuse and not
really get reactive about it.

how is it any different to let people make fun of david woods than it is
to let them make fun of anyone else?  would i trade places with him?  what
if this were me?  i would be very unhappy, if i knew that it were going
on.  if i had problems then it would just make them worse.

god, i don't even have to intuit anything to prove that this is flat-out
wrong.  it is *very* obvious.  hurting people sucks.

anyway.

where was i, before i digressed?

i am enjoying the warm glow that i get from being real.  and from being
honest.  it really helps that i can tell that it makes a difference in
other people.  and it makes me a lot clearer about what i'm doing, too.

[loving connects to telling the truth.  but i have no idea how, yet.  and
to honesty.  and to everything.  i sound confused, but i don't think i
really am.  i'll just keep talking.]


oh.  about authority.  it isn't right to help someone by making them
dependent on you.  autonomy and health is better.  unless, of course, the
best way to get there is to have someone be dependent and let you help
them.  it makes a lot of sense, when i think about it.
(this was kind of a random set of thoughts, but it fits with all the rest
of this, so here it is.  :)  )

OH!  and about motives.

one of the things that i was noticing with talking to people is that this
one peculiar sexual sort of tension is getting gone.  i usually don't
notice it unless i'm talking to a very attractive woman.  i think that it
is probably there with most people, though.

i was getting more and more freaked out tonight when i was talking to MK
and that just *wasn't there*.  apparently that's not part of my
subconscious's definition of beautiful soul.  so it just kind of dropped
out of the picture.  i'm pretty pleased about it.  i'm used to having to
fight my attraction stuff while i'm trying to talk to someone.  to have it
not be there is beautifully appropriate.

i think that was probably one of the things that was involved with the
conversation that erin glass and i had.  that tension wasn't there then,
either, so it changed the nature of the conversation.

i would normally expect lindsay or anna or MMW or whoever to set off that
response too, but it isn't happening for some reason.  i don't get it.  :)
but i like it.

it seems like that must have been a *big* issue with how i talk to people.
the physical stuff.  i'm glad to not be peering through that filter.
people are a lot more beautiful now.  more whole.


damn it, every time i type something else i remember more stuff that i
meant to type.

i figured out part of what draws me to people.

part of why i like to talk so much is because i get lonely.  i don't like
that.

if i'm talking to someone, then i at least know that *a* person trusts me
or loves me and i'm not alone.  the same goes for email that i send to
people.... if they answer, then they are filling in a need that i have for
communication.

talking to extroverted F's is the best, i think.  but F's in general
caress all the sweet spots in my brain.  the needs all get massaged
appropriately.

i noticed that i tend to worry about severe introverts when i see them off
sitting in a corner.  i am afraid that they feel lonely and that they are
not willing to do things with people.  i need to learn to let them have
that choice.... but it is hard.  i tend to project that they are like me
and are just very socially inept sometimes.  and that isn't always true.
i forget that not everybody likes people.


*sigh* another one.

i realized that the reason that my head probably started exploding late
last spring was for attention and specialness.  so i started working my
ass off and actually doing what i was supposed to be doing.

fortunately, it took.  i actually like what i'm doing, these days.
thinking is fun, instead of being a chore that i have to do in order to
keep you (connie) happy.  it is infectious.  :)

i guess the best way that i can describe where i am right now is that i'm
'in love with life'.  it is so cool.  :)  i like it here.  i have trouble
believing that it gets better.  but i know it does.  it always seems to be
worth it......


i sure do ramble a lot.  :)

love,
--elijah



