Here is a story from the book, "How Can I Help," subtitled, 'Stories and
Reflections on Service', by Ram Dass and Paul Gorman:

      1
      Natural Compassion

(The first story in the book, "How Can I Help," by Ram Dass and Paul
Gorman.)


I was in about forty feet water.  I knew I should not have gone alone,
but I was very competent and just took a chance.  There was not much
current, and the water was so warm and clear and enticing.  But when I
got a cramp, I realized at once how foolish I was.  I was not very
alarmed, but was completely doubled up with stomach cramps.  I tried to
remove my weight belt, but I was so doubled up I could not get to the
catch.  I was sinking and began to feel more frightened, unable to
move.  I could see my watch and knew that there was only a little more
time on the tank before I would be finished with breathing!  I tried to
massage my abdomen.  I wasn't wearing a wet suit, but couldn't
straighten out and couldn't get to the cramped muscles with my hands.
      I thought, "I can't go like this!  I have things to do!"  I just
couldn't die anonymously this way, with on one to even know what
happened to me.  I called out in my mind, “Somebody, something, help
me!"
      I was not prepared for what happened. Suddenly I felt a
prodding from behind me under the armpit.  I thought, "Oh no, Sharks!"
I felt real terror and despair.  But my arm was being lifted forcibly.
Around into my field of vision came an eye- the most marvelous eye I
could ever imagine.  I swear it was smiling.  It was the eye of a big
dolphin.  Looking into that eye, I knew I was safe.
      It moved farther forward, nudging under, and hooked its dorsal fin
under my armpit with my arm over its back.  I relaxed, hugging it,
flooded with relief.  I felt that the animal was conveying security to
me. That it was healing me as well as lifting me toward the surface.  My
stomach cramp went away as we ascended, and I relaxed with security, but
felt very strongly that it healed me too.
      At the surface, it drew me all the way in to the shore.  It took me
into water that was so shallow that I began to be concerned for it, that
it would be beached, and I pushed it back a little deeper, where it
waited, watching me, I guess to see if I was all right.
      It felt like another lifetime.  When I took off the weight belt and
oxygen, I just took everything off and went naked back into the ocean to
the dolphin.  I felt so light and free and alive, and just wanted to
play in the sun and the water, in all that freedom.  The dolphin took me
back out and played around in the water with me.  I noticed that there
were a lot of dolphins there, farther out.
      After a while it brought me back to shore.  I was very tired then,
almost collapsing, and he made sure I was safe in the shallowest water.
He then turned sideways with one eye looking into mine.  We stayed that
way for what seemed like a very long time, timeless I guess, in a trance
almost, with personal thoughts of the past going through my mind.  Then
he made just one sound and went out to join the others, and all of them
left.



