              THINGS AREN'T ALWAYS WHAT THEY SEEM

Two traveling angels stopped to spend the night in the home of a wealthy
family.  The family was rude and refused to let the angels stay in the
mansion's guest room.  Instead the angels were given a small space in the
cold basement.  As they made their bed on the hard floor, the older angel
saw a hole in the wall and repaired it.  When the younger angel asked why,
the older angel replied,

"Things aren't always what they seem"

The next night the pair came to rest at the house of a very poor, but very
hospitable farmer and his wife.  After sharing what little food they had
the couple let the angels sleep in their bed where they could have a good
night's rest.  When the sun came up the next morning the angels found the
farmer and his wife in tears.  Their only cow, whose milk had been their
sole income, lay dead in the field.  The younger angel was infuriated and
asked the older angel how could you have let this happen?  The first man
had everything, yet you helped him, she accused.  The second family had
little but was  willing to share everything, and you let the cow die.

"Things aren't always what they seem," the older angel replied.  "When we
stayed in the basement of the mansion, I noticed there was gold stored in
that hole in the wall.  Since the owner was so obsessed with greed and
unwilling to share his good fortune, I sealed the wall so he wouldn't find
it."  "Then last night as we slept in the farmer's bed, the angel of death
came for his wife.  I gave him the cow instead.

“Things aren't always what they seem."

Sometimes that is exactly what happens when things don't turn out the way
they should.  If you have faith, you just need to trust that every outcome
is always to your advantage.  You might not know it until some time
later...

                    0ooo
Some people         (    )
come into our lives  )  /
and quickly go..    (_ /

 oooO
(    )      Some people
 \  (        become friends
  \_)       and stay awhile...

leaving beautiful      Oooo
footprints on our     (    )
hearts...              )  /
                      (_ /

oooO
(    )      and we are
 \  (
  \_ )  never  quite the same
        because we have
        made a good friend!!

-Flavia

Yesterday is history.  Tomorrow a mystery.
Today is a gift.  That's why it's called the present!
I think this is special...live every moment...
This is not a dress rehearsal!


