From: IN%"m_mcbee@yahoo.com"  "Matt McBee" 12-MAR-1999 13:49:07.14
To:   IN%"chood@tntech.edu", IN%"mtm3106@tntech.edu"
CC:
Subj: J: love, stuff


Journal 3-11-99

I have been very resistant to writing the journal about Love that you
asked for.  I haven't read the other message that you sent me -- it
has been maddening at times!  I began writing it -- I actually have
about a page written, but I haven't actually talked about what Love
is.  I have spent my time talking about what Love isn't.  I just read
back over what I had written, and I had a kind of insight.  Love as
Truth.  I wrote that Love was a state of oneness, like two drops of
water joining into one drop.  The boundaries between them were
imaginary to begin with.  An experential knowledge of this truth is
Love.  Love is the one-maker.  Love allows one to look upon
someone else as an extension of the self, to care for the flesh of
another as one cares for his own flesh.  That is Love.  The coveted
four axioms become one thing, and that is Love.  In that joining,
there is no room for dishonesty.  Openness is a must.  Empathy is
natural.  And Unconditionality is natural as well.  Love is usually an
act of will.  The four axioms require effort to observe.  But Love
itself can be an act of will, or an act of God.  The highest purpose
of human beings is to Love.  The way that we manifest Love can be
improved, our ability to experience love, our desire to surrender to
love -- all these things must be consciously worked on.  But the
Love itself, the truth, the Realness -- is perfection.  It is an arrow
pointing back upon itself, it is complete, it is whole, it is urgent.

It calls, tantilizes.  It is stubborn.  False love abounds, Love is always
there, hanging in silence.  Love is peace.  Love is fulfilling.  Love
leads to the highest form of happiness, which is Love.  Our quest as
human beings is to train ourselves to more fully realize this Love
each day.  We train ourselves to surrender to Love when we can.  In
the process, we become more fully realized human beings.  We hurt
to love.  The aloneness that is not Love produces agony and
suffering.  How we thirst for Love!  We try to find Love in a million
wrong ways, we have sex, we make ourselves powerful in the world,
to attract mates.  We cheat on our spouses.  We take drugs, to
alleviate the suffering of not being Love.  But Love becons from
within.  The way to Love is found when we stop trying to GET Love,
and become willing to BE Love.  The quest is a battle, a journey.
First, we must train ourselves to be honest and open.  Then, we look
inside, and beging battling our inner demons that prevent us from
being Love.  This battle is very long and painful, and most people
give up.  This is the Call to Quest.  The Calling pulls us in a milloin
different ways, it is our inner guide.  The Calling pulls us towards
the truth, which is Love.  As for the remaining steps... I don't know.
I am a novice.  But I know where I am going.  The Pursuit of
Happiness, the coveted American Dream, is a hoax.  A profound
truth is that possesions do not bring happiness.  Happiness begins
the moment we stop TRYING to be happy, and begin to observe
the world around us.


