in fall o' 1993 (note the four-digit year; this essay is 100% y2k
compliant) i wandered onto ttu's campus and decided "hmm, i think
i'll get an electrical engineering degree today."  i came out of
a middle-class, southern-baptist family.  my dad was/is the music
minister at our church; my mom was/is an art teacher at two of
the local elementary schools.  i've always gotten along well with
both of them, as well as my sister, who is five years younger
than i.  academically, i had been an honor student all my life.
socially, i had been somewhat reclusive up through junior high=7F
(the whole nerd with thich-rimmed glasses stereotype had been
applied to me quite a bit until then), but, through band and
drama involvement, had learned to socialize and interact fairly
well in high school, despite my fear of people (i've finally
learned not to call it introversion, which is something a bit
different.)  so that's where i was then when i arrived at ttu.  i
thought then, and still think now, that i was doing pretty well,
that i was a relatively stable person and had enough discipline
to manage myself.

if i was a mentor student my first two years at tech, i certainly
didn't know it.  :)  since i somehow managed not to ever take
eng202h, i was probably lucky in that i had connie's hon101
class.  that, at least from my end, was where i got started in
mentor.  connie and i had several conferences during that time,
but i never put the label 'mentor student' on myself.  i knew
such people existed, but they were mythical, nebulous beings to
me.  i didn't really know what they did, and frankly, i wasn't
interested during that time.  i was too busy trying to find
social groups, and not seeing myself as doing too great a job, to
be honest.  the old people-fears were rearing their ugly heads,
and i found myself sitting in a lot of corners and watching.

religiously, i was stuck at some sort of ceiling then.  my
parents, especially my dad, were/are fairly moderate for baptists
(or at least for baptists i've experienced).  i didn't really
have any concept of religious tolerance, but at least within my
own religion i was looking toward more than just dogma.  the
bible was slipping as religious authority, as were most of my
religious teachers.  it was obvious to me that i'd thought a
great deal more about christianity and spirituality than they
had, and had probably read more of the bible.  the bible was a
jumping off point for me, but i didn't place a lot of stock in
literal interpretation.  in a lot of instances it worked, but not
all of them.  i was getting primed for some deeper spiritual
work, but something was there i couldn't get past.  i wonder if
it was a hang-up with sincerity.  i tried the charismatic
christianity thing a few time, you know, the big meetings with
lots of singing, hands in the air, loud amens, and young,
energetic pastors giving "spiritual pep talks."  it was fun most
of the time, but i always felt a bit guilty, because some of the
things that were pushed there i didn't really believe in.  that,
and i had a habit of "sinning". :)  (mostly cussing, and in my
eye that was a pretty bad thing.  these days, i still don't like
it, but more because i've decided it's simply not a nice thing to
do.  i have yet to quit entirely, though.  old habits die hard.)
most of my gripes, though, stemmed from me seeing christians act
from dogma instead of from compassion.  i've lost faith many
times, and most of the time that was the reason.

the moving past the stuck spot actually began while i was away
from tech.  it was my third year of school, and i was spending it
on co-op.  i had started to journal (on my own, by the way,
without connie's prompting :), mostly because i was again reading
through the bible, and things were making more and more sense.  i
was seeing "answers" to questions i had, although really, i think
they were more validations to answers i already had been playing
with.  compassion was beginning to show through, as was religious
tolerance, things i really think i was looking for, but just
wasn't 100% aware what i was doing.  i kept hitting the question
"why is salvation only available for protestants?", which i think
most of us have asked, from one standpoint or another, sometime
in our lives.  i began to wonder "well, if someone is faithful to
their 'god' whether it's the christian god, the jewish god,
allah, etc., why can't they be saved?  isn't the faith what's
really important, and not the doctrine?"  at this point, i was
almost back at tech, and fortunately, i had signed up for
connie's mysticism course that semester.  i ended up not
finishing the class, but not before i'd read several things and
been able to talk with several people about religion and
spirituality.  i managed to see enough of other traditions to see
that underneath the doctrine, they all were pretty much the same.
(later, i realized also that each has its share of radicals and
fundamentalists, too.  i doubt any religion is immune.  sigh.)  i
reached another level, where spirituality was about light, and
compassion, and love, and people.  this lasted a little over a
year, during which i both made and was on team for Search, which
was very good at keeping it going.  this brings us to about a
year ago, which is when i started to crash.

i'm still not sure why, but all the light stuff went away, and
hasn't really been back since.  maybe evelyn underhill would call
it dark night of the soul; i don't know.  it's just like suddenly
i was cut off from all the fun stuff, and there was nothing but
this big black hole, and i was sitting at the bottom of it.
cylindrical, smooth walls, smooth, hard floor, a well of sorts.
i had dug so deep, looking for this spirituality i *knew*
existed, until i hit (what seems to be) rock bottom.  and guess
what?  there's nothing here. and that's pretty much where i am
today, spiritually/religiously.  i get enough hints of the old
feelings to realize that i probably won't stay here forever, but
learning how to live here has not been fun.  and i know just
enough to realize i need to be able to accept this place forever
before i can ever move on.  a nice paradox when you think about
it.

but back to mentor... :)  it was when i came back off of co-op
assignment that one could say i was formally brought into mentor
(at least to my knowlege :).  i'm not entirely sure what the
circumstances were, to be honest.  i had been elected to the
honors council and appointed to the steering committee, both
bodies having several mentor students in them, and before i knew
it, these were my closest friends, and we were doing "connie
stuff" together -- book discussions, journalling, and then the
progoff semester of spring 1997.  for the most part, i think i
was pretty full of myself; i had a pretty wide streak of mentor
elitism.  my head was working overtime, and i was figuring a lot
of things out for myself, trying desperately to figure autonomy
out.  and it felt really good, euphoric even at times; it was a
very mentally active time for me, so it's probably understandable
that my ego swelled a bit.

i think quite a bit of that euphoria came as a result of the
progoff semester connie took us through.  i've never felt as
connected to a group of people as i did right after we finished
affirmations that last night.  and i never have since.  now that
i think about it, that could be part of the spiritual crash i
had.  classes the next semester were fun but very demanding; it
was the first semester i'd ever even come close to burn-out, and
the mentor group i was in (called CORE, or COEUR, as james liked
to to spell it) was put on my back-burner.  something always has
to give for me, and that ended up being it (and that remained
until i graduated, sadly).  in the process, though, i lost a lot
of the connectedness i'd found, and a mild despondency set in.
(remember that people and spirituality were very closely related
for me.  still are, for that matter.)  the mental energy i'd had
went away, leaving even less for me to spread between school,
work (i had an administrative job with tech's computer center by
that time, 10+ hr/wk), honors, and mentor.  now, it seems the
farther i got from core, the harder everything else was.

the more i write, the harder it's getting to tie everything
together.  :)

the more i look at my growth, especially lately, i'm seeing a
shift in my reasoning processes.  until recently, i did most of
my decisions from...let's call it good intentions.  i want to say
compassion, but i think compassion is quite a bit more complex.
the decisions were generally made with people's emotional well-
being in mind (and note that often, my emotional well-being
suffered to this end, something i don't necessarily see as
positive.)  for those of you who've read Pearson's AWAKENING THE
HEROES WITHIN, i was doing a caretaker, but not the healthiest
one i could have been.  i've been very empathic for many years
(but it seems hidden for now, apparently), and i think i gave in
to it much more than i should have.  empathy brings with it a
drive to "fix things," which is a hard beast to contain.

again, i'm not sure how the shift occurred, but i started wanting
to do things more logically, more rationally.  i had been buried
in senior design work in my computer engineering courses, very
focused on logic and programming and detail.  maybe me kicking my
brain into those areas in my classes rewired the part of me i
reserve for outside of class, too.  it seems that i swung, mbti-
speaking, from NF to ST very quickly.  maybe too quickly, as my
spiritual crash happened in the same time frame.  i generally
don't like to do growth by leaps and bounds.  i like to do it
slowly, paying attention to what is happening, so i can keep it
in some sort of context.  but this one slipped up on me.

part of the problem...excuse me, part of the *dissonance* for me
is that i value compassion highly, possibly more than anything
else.  but it's hard not equating compassion with 'good
intentions'.  'good intentions' don't always agree with
rationale, but rationale plays much more into my decision making
lately.  and that hurts.  mindtalk tells me i'm not being
compassionate, when what i'm really probably doing is not giving
in to the caregiver that wants to fix things.  the conversation
about F versus "emotion" on the list has me thinking that
compassion entails both good intentions *and* rationale.  i just
haven't figured it out entirely.  yet.  give me a few more days.
:)

well gosh darn it, something just pulled together.  i may not
have made it clear earlier, but i've been pretty bitter about
fundamentalist christianity for several years now.  the word
"doctrine" just has so many bad connotations for me, because it
so often seems to supercede compassion.  people who operate out
of doctrine employ rationale as their tool, with doctrine being
the parameters of the system.  maybe that's why i have such a
hard time seeing rationale as a positive thing, because i've seen
it abused so much.

well, i need to take a breather here from the heavy stuff.  as
part of this, here's a list of things that have been important to
me over the last 5.5 years:

books (and why):
BEING PEACE, Thich Nhat Hanh (14 wonderful precepts.  helps to
listen to them.)
THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO JESUS, Stephen Mitchell (the 3-Jesus
paradox.  if you're still curious, email me and i'll explain.
actually, i'll send you an essay i wrote a couple years back.)
THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST, SAVIOURS OF GOD, Nikos Kazanzakis
(seeing the humanity of Jesus, and hearing the trials of a
spiritual seeker, respectively)
THE ESSENTIAL RUMI, Rumi, tr. Coleman Barks (simplicity.)
THE ILLUMINATUS TRILOGY, Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson (a
head-breaking good time.)
RELIGIONS, VALUES, AND PEAK EXPERIENCES, Abraham Maslow
(validity)
MEETING THE SHADOW, ed. Zweig and Abrams (first place i was told
not to be afraid of the dark side of the force.)
GODEL, ESCHER, BACH, Douglas Hofstater (everything coming
together in one place.)
JOB: A COMEDY OF JUSTICE, TIME ENOUGH FOR LOVE, Robert Heinlein
(heresy.  gotta love it.)
ENDER'S GAME, THE LOST BOYS, Orson Scott Card (Ender was a loner.
So was I, from time to time.  The Lost Boys was the first time I
ever even considered Mormonism to be valid; played a large part
in me learning any kind of appreciation for non-protestant
religions.)
THE DILBERT PRINCIPLE, Scott Adams (it was a healing book for me
after a bad co-op experience)

songs (and why):
THESE ARE DAYS, 10,000 Maniacs (it's about living life fully)
STAND, LOOK AROUND, THE MOUNTAINS WIN AGAIN, Blues Traveler (a
song about questioning, a song about responsibility and finding
your own answers, and a song about loss, pain, and starting
over.)
THE RIVER (about acting in spite of fears), Garth Brooks
TARKUS, KARN EVIL 9 (both about the dark sides of humanity),
Emerson, Lake & Palmer
PASSION (the whole album), Peter Gabriel (purely a spiritual
thing)
RED RAIN, IN YOUR EYES, Peter Gabriel (the same)
LIVE ART, Bela Fleck and the Flectones (good music that can be
anything i need it to be.)
SUGAR MAGNOLIA, Grateful Dead (it's about sunshine.)
SHAME ON YOU, GET OUT THE MAP, Indigo Girls (lauging in spite of
hatred, and doing one's own thing)
DON'T STOP BELIEVIN', BE GOOD TO YOURSELF, Journey (a validation
song, and a song about not being hard on yourself.)=7F
BEAU'S ALL NIGHT RADIO LOVE LINE, Joshua Kadison (love's not
always glamorous)
3 AM, Matchbox 20 (love hurts, and totally defies logic)
ANTS MARCHING, Dave Matthews Band (mostly, i just like songs with
energy.)
WONDER, Natalie Merchant (more validation)
YOU LEARN, Alanis Morissette (the name says it all)
JUMPER, Third Eye Blind (living with pain)
THE TOUCH, DARE, Stan Bush (both high energy, but also pep-talk
songs)
INVISIBLE CITY, THREE MARLENAS, The Wallflowers (about gaining
wisdom, and about life)
HIGHER LOVE, Steve Winwood (again, the name says it all)
IN REMEMBRANCE OF ME, ? (the first communion is still an
important biblical event for me.  the reasons keep changing, or
at least, they keep getting added to. :)
EVERYTHING LOUDER THAN EVERYTHING ELSE, Meatloaf (rebellion)


now that i've taken that lighter-side break (i've writing this
over several sessions, by the way), back to the inner recesses of
my mind.  a very noticeable effect of this (what seems to be a)
NF to ST shift is how i approach schoolwork (as well as other
"professional" tasks).  when i'm studying, or doing homework,
reading, etc., the task at hand is my entire world.  i can't have
any distractions, no radio, tv, even the hum of a computer fan.
i focus very well,  ONCE I'M DOWN INTO IT.  the problem is
getting down there; i can come up very easily, but it's very hard
re-focusing.  very singleminded, not in any way what i generally
consider multitasking.  i think i remember multitasking fairly
well (despite the dependence on Windows 3.1) as a freshman; it
was a very intuitive process.  i no longer think the intuition
went away (althought for a while i certainly believed it the
case), but it's more constrained, like i'm using it for one or
two tasks at a time, instead of holding the whole world in my
head at once.  (the world now goes in my $3 wal-mart pocket
planner.)

hrmmm... i know i'm missing tons of stuff; maybe connie can
suggest gaps i can fill (or anyone else who's been around me the
last couple of years).  thank you for reading this.

love,
Lewis
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rabbi: "Go to the door to see if the Messiah has come."
Disciple: "But Rabbi, if the Messiah cam, wouldn't you know it in your=
 heart?"
Rabbi: "Ah, but in there, the Messiah has already come."

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
"Well, we're safe for now.  At least we're in a bowling alley."
--Pleasantville

"I'm crazy enough to take on Batman, but the IRS -- no thank you."
                             --The Joker

"With all these rules, it's no wonder kids play video games all day.  They
have nowhere else to go."         --The Brain
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


