      The time has come to write my exit autobiography for mentor.
Reflection on my last five years here at Tech and working with Connie
brings back an overwhelming flood of memories. Some things, like the
large mentor groups where wonderful moments of bonding took place
during the many dinners and affirmation exercises I participated in,
are painful to leave. Other things, like those huge stack of books
that Connie always assigned for me to read, I am glad to leave behind.
But, the many moments pain and pleasure, agony and ecstasy, growth and
regression have all helped me to become who I am today. My work here
in mentor has done much for me; I proud of what it has helped me to do
and accomplish. The river of my life over the past five years provides
many emotions and experiences, but it is a beautiful (albeit,
sometimes bumpy) roadway whose ebb and flow has never ceased to teach
and provide me with much bounty. For this reason, I am proud to retell
my journey in mentor.

      Though I did not begin in mentor during my freshman year, I
believe that my story in mentor has important roots in this early
period of my college education. While completing my freshman year of
college, I found life to be very successful and fulfilling. My
criteria for success largely consisted of a belief that, with enough
work and faith in God, I could attain nearly anything I wanted. I
studied hard and did very well academically, completing the year with
a 3.9 GPA and receiving many praises from my teachers. Dr. Hood, I
remember, was very impressed with a lengthy Honors 101 position paper
I wrote for her class. I labored quietly away on Calculus and English
assignments while taking sociology and philosophy courses that greatly
stimulated my mind. Loneliness pervaded my life, but I thought it a
price of living the good life. I jogged 25 miles a week to handle
anxiety and bore the drinking parties and sexual escapades of my
dorm-mates with great Christian piety. I was an imperfect individual
striving to implement the authentic and proper views that God,
parents, and community had so graciously provided me.

      But my simple, successful life would soon begin undergoing
fluctuations and changes that I was quite unprepared to deal with.
That summer, while working with the Physics Department, I found my
personality suddenly disappearing as I studied the atom and the
universe. The rich theory and completeness I found in physics gave me
a coherent explanation of who I was, where I came from, and how
reality was comprised. The infinities of time, space, and freedom of
thought gave me a sensation of spiritual union which I had hereto not
felt. But this theory also lay in stark contrast to the Lutheran
upbringing which I had received. The physics I studied provided
scientific evidence for a God-free world much older than depicted by
the Bible. The absence of God I perceived in physics also threatened
the worldviews that were instilled within me at a very young age.
Amidst all the union and the immense beauty which I was perceiving,
worlds were also beginning to collide.

      Later that summer, as I began to working long hours at Oak Ridge
National Laboratory, I began to experience great periods of
sleeplessness and anxiety. My fear of failure and inability to achieve
my goals also led me to begin questioning the ways in which I viewed
the world while also becoming even more protective of my religious
beliefs. The unending internal struggle created depression and
eventually engrossed me in a dark pit that seemed to have no bottom.
As the months dragged onward and school began, these problems
continued and increased in intensity as I struggled through Calculus
III and physics. Things eventually became so difficult that, while
struggling with thoughts of suicide and desire to drop out of school,
I sought treatment for depression. My family doctor put me on an
antidepressant and advised me to look at addressing some of the
problems that perhaps underlay my condition. At this point, desiring
to fix the problem and move on with my life, I scheduled an
appointment with Dr. Hood to talk about the issue.

      Having Dr. Hood for British Literature II during that fall term
and knowing that she was interested in psychological issues, I felt
that discussing the issue of depression with her would be productive.
Connie (as I now call her, though I never would have dreamed of doing
so at the time) spoke with me about depression and personal behaviors
issues that might have sparked the condition. We looked at how
personal isolation, my general sense of uptightness, fantasies about
maintaining perfect grades and becoming a top-notch physicist, and my
own fears of failure all helped to contribute to my depression. She
provided me with a copy of The Road Less Traveled and asked if I
wished to write journals and discuss some of these issues with her. At
this point, though I did not realize it at the time, I began my
education in mentor.

      During that fall term, as I struggled through physics and
learned how to deal with not performing to my own expectations, I
began writing journals for Connie and participating in English
discussion groups. I sculpted writings and journals with the greatest
care, attempting as best as I could to explain and rectify my
worldviews with the teachings of my past. Though it didn’t spare me
from a profound sense of shame that resulted from barely passing
Calculus III, it did help me to feel more connected with the world
around me. After the fall semester finished, I proceeded to retake
Calculus and participate in Dr. Hood’s Progoff course. I found myself
to deeply enjoy the weekly guided-imagery exercises as I worked
alongside many older and wiser mentor students like James Rushing,
Eric Evers, and Stephen Deppen. As a bounced through exercises
designed to come-to-grips with issues regarding parents, family, and
core personal values, they patiently put up with my defensive
exuberance and encouraged me to come out of my shell. While I did
little deep self-analysis, I did manage to connect deeply enough with
the group to become much more open and comfortable with others.

      After school ended during the spring, I began work again with
the physics department at ORNL. I felt much more relaxed, connected,
and happy than I had during the previous year. Using the wisdom I had
gained during this period, I returned home and attempted reunification
with my old beliefs and values. After delivering a sermon at my
parent’s church (which usually only ordained clergy are allowed to
give) that was received with great respect and admiration, I suddenly
became convinced that I wished to become a Lutheran minister.
Regressing firmly to my pre-depression positions, I zealously
attempted to teach others about my personal struggles and how my
“correct” views of meaning, God, and the world could help others to
change for the better. This view, because it lacked empathy of seeing
the rightness and beauty in other people’s positions, left me isolated
from the mentor community that I felt at home with. Afraid to destroy
my God-structure (and my own neurotic attachments to family and life
philosophies that rested upon this God-structure), I found myself
again in a state of depression and insomnia.

      After a long conference with Dr. Hood, where she firmly (but in
her loving and gentle way that bypassed by defenses) told me that I
needed to let go of my tightly-held God if I wished to better address
my personal problems, I reluctantly started the process of tumbling
God from atop my world. In doing so, I began to allow myself to
confront the rigidity I used to endure my many fears, anxieties, and
turmoil. I began asking myself if I was really a Lutheran, what my
innter called to become, if it was time I became less involved with my
parents, and look for my own place in the world. Poems began flowing
from my subconscious which released a creativity that my rigidity
constrained and also helped me deal with issues in my life. Reading
Scott Peck, Thich Nhat Hahn, John of the Cross, Huston Smith, Rumi,
and other authors, I also began to open myself to the rich diversity
in the world around me. I also began to seriously doubt the existence
of my old Lutheran God, though I went to church to be with family and
friends. For me, the issue of God became irrelevant as I began to
retreat from my earlier positions and attempt to find my own,
authentic position in the world.

      The result of this searching led me to seek some fundamental
changes in my daily life. Beginning that fall, Dr. Hood placed me in
her weekly mentor group meetings; for the first time in college, I
became more actively involved in group settings. The mentor group
allowed for me to talk openly about depression, fears, and personal
interests. Listening to others talk about their own personal issues
also allowed for me to learn that I was not alone in the world. I
began to not dart home every weekend from school and started dating.
My dating was unsuccessful from the perspective of finding a steady
girlfriend, but it did allow for me to start addressing my colossal
fears of women my own age. Connie’s mentor exercises and James
Rushing’s Self-Esteem course also brought me to address the many
irrational statements in my head concerning childhood feelings of
inadequacy (I had very few friends in grade school) and unworthiness
that were really hindering me from feeling more independent and in
control of my life.

      After taking a few upper-division math courses, I also decided
to leave physics to pursue a degree in mathematics. I knew math was
not a life-calling and found its study exceedingly difficult, but it
did teach me how to wrestle with difficult problems and become more
comfortable with my limits of understanding. Working with Russell’s
paradox and statistics also taught me the major role of assumptions in
logical outcomes and helped me perceive how much potential error my
simplistic views contained in relation to the larger world outside me.
With Dr. Hood, I examined the question of what I wanted to do with my
life with great intensity. I began thinking about a career in law or
business. I also took my first economic courses, a subject to which I
would later return with great interest.

      After finishing my junior year, Connie informed me of her desire
to teach an Honors 402 Mysticism course. Excited about the chance of
working with her in a classroom setting again, I eagerly dove into her
assigned readings for the course. During the summer, I read Evelyn
Underhill and John of the Cross (the caustic mystic I would study for
the fall term), vacationed, and quietly worked at home while I
pondered my relation to the world around me. The depression left as I
mentally began pulling myself away from the religious positions of my
family. I declared (to myself and my friends in mentor) that I was an
atheist. I felt that my work with mentor was coming to completion, as
I believed that I had finally become clear enough to see the world
around me.

      That summer, however, also began a sequence of events that led
to a very deep reexamination of these beliefs. The first event was
taking a Life-Training course; due to extreme insomnia and deep
anxieties that were brought up during the event, I left a few hours
early before the course ended. Being unable to complete the course
reminded me just how deeply anxiety was rooted in my existence. This
event was followed by an extremely stressful fall semester and a
general sensation that all was not right with the world around me.
Everything was working out logically, but the stress and anxiety still
remained and felt quite burdensome in nature.

      In mysticism, while focusing my interests on the general study
of Christianity, I began exploring its roots and origin. In the
process of this exploration, I ran across a copy of Stephen Mitchell’s
Gospel According to Jesus. Reading this work, I came to realize just
how biased many of my beliefs were toward Christian doctrine. This
realization triggered a series of questions that led me to realize how
neurotic attachments to family, unexamined beliefs concerning moral
and educational values, and a fear of the unknown were driving my
life. With the added stress of having no idea of what I wished to do
with the rest of my less, reading Mitchell’s book became a trigger for
another period of extremely deep depression. Despite many poems,
journals written on my state-of-mind, and attempts to answer the many
existential questions with which my mind became bombarded, I could not
end my suffering. Like John of the Cross, I had entered a dark night
of the soul that I could not escape.

      Dr. Hood, seeing my general sense of hopelessness and that I was
spiraling ever more into a pit, urged me to seek help with a
psychologist. Through Honors, I was able to connect with Gloria
Russell of Tech’s nursing department and begin addressing the anxiety
and depression issues that were plaguing my life. My work with Dr.
Russell would, over the next year-and-a- half, prove instrumental in
addressing many of my own personal problems. As a result, through some
intense psychotherapy, I was able to seek answers regarding my mental
illness, address the many questions resulting from my downward spiral
into existentialism, and develop strategies and worldviews to better
let me be who I was as an individual.

      During the spring semester, as I began going to counseling to
treat this depression, I also decided upon a career in economics. This
major, a combination of philosophy and logic, made ready use of my
mathematical skills while examining a basic component of the human
condition (e.g., how humans decide to consume and use limited
resources). I found this combination of analysis and philosophy to fit
my interests quite well. It took a great while to find my nitch in the
world, but mentor work did help me loosen my mindsets enough to
determine what path would fit my professional vocation.

      Another important outcome of the spring semester was, for the
first time, leading a mentor book group with Gary Andraza. This period
marked the first time that I was able to formally lead an activity.
The responsibility of helping other individuals seek their own paths
and develop awareness and understanding of the world around them
seemed daunting to me. Also, learning to deal with disagreements and
my own control strings with Gary proved to be a challenge. But, with
the cooperation and commitment of Gary, we both learned a great deal
and taught much from the book group’s weekly meetings. Planning
reading assignments and growth exercises was also quite invigorating;
from these experiences, I learned that I had a natural gift for
teaching and also a strong personal desire to be a mentor and teacher
in later life.

      After my fourth year of school, I decided to declare another
major in economics and continue working with Dr. Hood for a fifth
year. In doing so, I decided to spend my final year working on several
major research projects focusing in areas of economics, psychology,
and history. For the fall term, I completed Honors 402 projects in
international trade and personal development. For my personal
development course, I worked with Gloria Russell to examine personal
anxiety issues and completed a length research paper on anxiety
theories, personal anxiety issues, and treatments for my anxiety
issues. Through the months of extensive reading and research that
followed, I learned a great deal about anxiety and also methods to
control the tension, insomnia, depression, and accompanying fears that
had long possessed control of my life. This information was extremely
helpful in allowing me to start regaining control of my life.


      For the spring term, I completed research projects on the
history of economic thought and the historical Jesus. My paper on the
historical Jesus, a daunting task that I would not have dared attempt
trying years earlier, involved examining many opposing views that
attempted to reconstruct the actual individual who was Jesus. From a
scholarly perspective, it marked the first time that I was fully able
to hold multiple, opposing models together in my head to construct a
mature analysis of an issue that differed from my own opinions. From a
developmental perspective, it helped me to examine the painful issue
of Christianity and make peace with Jesus. I was able to read
Mitchell, church conservatives, and radical atheists like Nietzsche
critically and without experiencing deep angst or bias toward my
traditional upbringing. The ability to hold my own beliefs while
critically and emphatically examining differing views marked a major
milestone in my growth. For, in doing so, I was finally able to
acknowledge my own wisdom and my important, unique connection to the
world around me.

      Aside from gaining a firmer foothold on career plans and a
better theoretical understanding of myself, I also made much headway
in my relationships with women and my social anxiety of others around
me. My success at research and the long hours of work with Connie and
in counseling left me feeling much better about myself and my
capabilities as an individual. While I didn’t really date or become
the life of the party, I did take a more active role in social
gatherings and also spend much more time in one-on-one or small-group
settings with women. For a man who didn’t go to his senior prom,
didn’t have a roommate while in school, and spent most time outside of
class studying inside his dorm room, this outcome boasted a remarkable
change. Unlike my first few years in school, I also didn’t spend
weekends at my parents home and didn’t go to a Lutheran church every
Sunday. The years work in mentor on personal examination and practice
at being who I was instead of what I thought I should be helped to
create a much different individual than before.

      I write this essay less than two weeks (the end of May 2000)
after my graduation from TTU. In the fall, I am beginning work on a
Ph.D. in economics at Washington University. I find that I still get
depressed, suffer from major anxiety issues, and get angry over very
little things. I am also still deeply afraid of change and have many
neurotic defenses like hiding in my apartment when life doesn’t go my
way. But, I also know myself much better than before and stand up for
my own needs like space, privacy, and a stimulating intellectual
environment. I have also learned how to deal with many of my own
personal demons like anxiety and fear of failure, learned how to
accept and utilize many different points of view in my understanding
of the world, and taught myself how to listen and more clearly view
the world around me. I have made great strides in overcoming neurotic
introversion and learning how to relax. Most of these developments
have come either directly from mentor or from activities that sprang
from mentor work with Connie. I hope that my students may one day gain
as much as I have from this program.
