From: judson <mejnun@home.com>
Subject: today's journal -- 31oct1999
To: 'mentorlist' <mentor@cs.utk.edu>, 'Sandy!' <shughes@arches.uga.edu>
Reply-to: mentor@cs.utk.edu
Message-id: <01BF2309.361532E0@ci624803-a.athen1.ga.home.com>
Encoding: 130 TEXT

31OCT1999

I was sitting here reading Zen and the Brain, halfway falling asleep, and I
had a twilight image. A man was trying to get through a process, to become
initiated or something, to pass a threshold. He'd let go of the things that
the other people had to, but he was still clinging to something. He asked
the guide why he couldn't just let go of the same things as the others. He
was very attached to those final things. The guide says, "Because it's not
yours."

You have to let go. It's not yours to hold. It's not yours to have.

I was thinking, as I was driving about town today doing the shopping, that
I'm ready to get a real job, a real house, a real life. I want to be able
to afford things. I want to feel free to eat out if I happen to be out,
rather than coming home where it's more economical. But I don't. And so I
cling to those desires to obtain those things.

But they're not mine to have. And when I get them, they still won't belong
to me.

Letting go.

It's just not mine, and it never will be.

There's not a me for it to belong to, except the me in that bucket of
water. But the me that I see possessing things isn't that me at all. The
possessor is the role that I play, the costume I put on for the ball. But
there's no point in believing that the mask is real, and why should I be
attached to things that the mask belongs. The sceptre that the man dressed
up as a king holds is no symbol of real power. His crown has baubles in it.

No one will obey the pretender.

Letting go.

My job is not mine. Sandy is not mine. My neuroses aren't mine. They're
games that I play. But the games are not mine. Reality is the ocean that
lies outside my bucket. The bucket  isn't mine, and it doesn't exist save
as a game of my own imagination. That ocean, that backward and forward
flowing river, is where my being mingles with Sandy's, and my co-workers',
and my friends', and my car's, and my plants', for they're not mine. We're
us. My union, my selflessness with Sandy, while I imagine that I'm a man
holding a bucket, is just the lesser iteration when I'm learning that we're
not separate. It's the model, the map, but not the real thing -- yet. The
real thing is always there, but never fully realized until it's consciously
realized.

Letting go.

And these realizations are not mine. I'm not unique. It's part of the great
whole. It's the process. I'm just a part, sympathizing, empathizing,
letting go. Letting go of this part, finding the greater whole.

I love.

And yet, with all these thoughts, with these tears coming to my eyes, I
live most of my life in the game, not even with just me and the bucket,
but me as the man who happens to have a bucket of water. And that's what
is. Me, thinking that, but catching hints and glimpses of the real thing.
Ah, to live there.

But that's not mine to have.

Letting go.

I'm caught here, trapped. I 'm sitting on two stools. I'm straddling the
fence. I want to leap over the fence in one bound, but I've just got my
smallest toe on the other side, and I'm pretending I'm all the way over. I
feel the unhappiness, the unhealthy habits, the neuroses, the addictions. I
feel time sweeping by me, and I get anxious. I grasp at what I think I
should be, and it's slipping away. Letting go is so hard in this form. I
keep skipping back to the masks and the games. It's hard to love that. I
guess it's time to do an exercise of loving the games.

That certainly makes the tears come. To see myself, there, playing those
games, and to accept it as what is. And to embrace that's it's all
co-existent. When I love it, I transcend it, but I'm still there, too,
still doing it, playing ego games, loving the way the tears make me feel,
and yet still doing the processing, being it and not-it.

What do I want from this?

The truth. To love. To help. To escape. Ah. I'm trying to escape my misery.

Misery? I don't normal think of myself as miserable. Ah. Finality. The
final goal, the surrender my process, to find rest. I want to no longer
have to struggle with this over and over again. To realize that I'm letting
myself get stressed out from fear, letting that fear go, and then doing the
same thing again. I want to arrive. But there's nowhere to arrive.

Letting go of that. Letting go of enlightenment.

Peeling the onion.

Life is a struggle, among other things. This is never going to stop until
my life is over and the final word is written. And if mine stops, then
someone else's continues. The Work doesn't stop. That's why the bodhisattva
can't GO yet, b/c the struggle goes on. We are one, and when you arrive,
you realize that only part of you has arrived. The personal struggle goes
on, but the personal succumbs to the transpersonal.

It doesn't stop.

We have to take the sins of the world on ourselves, to take the sadness on
ourselves. Christian sin is the separation. Maya.

And if we're going to do that, we're going to have to chop wood, carry
water. We can't just pass away to go walk with God like Elijah (or is it
Elisha?) did. We've got to keep carrying our bucket, to keep playing the
games, wearing our masks, but the games and the masks eventually become
clearer and clearer, so that they become a mirror. We reflect to others
what is in themselves, because we become so empty from letting go, and yet
so full. Full of them. Full of everyone. That's why we reflect too, b/c we
let them see through to themselves, and we feel that in us, and that is
true empathy, not just the imagining of another's suffering, but taking it
on oneself, working together, being one.

I'm going to stop here for now.

lux,
judson

judson nichols          mejnun@home.com
