From: TTU::MER6957      "MICHAEL ROETTGER"  6-FEB-1999 14:59:41.64
To:   TTU::LRC7812
CC:   MER6957
Subj: RE: your poems

Dear Lucas,

Thank you for writing to me. This is the first time in a while that
someone has responded to the poems that I've written. To answer you're
question, I write these poems because something very deep within me
tells me to do so. For instance, why do you play the guitar? Poems are
also a mechanism for me to learn to speak more in a spontaneous manner
and to act as an outlet for emotions that I don't often let myself
otherwise express. Its like therapy, really, I guess. When I practice
the art of writing poems, I am allowing for my intuition to swell up
and create pictures and insights that allow for me to bring new parts
of myself to consciousness.

When I write poems, I am also allowing for myself to find an outlet of
expression for the pain, fear, and anxiety that are keeping me bound
to my old ways. Its a practice of expressing and letting go. A way for
me to show myself and practice some wit and understanding that aren't
usually expressed in my methodical, analytical approach that I usually
take to understanding a lot of things.

There is also just a level of me ENJOYING writing poems. Its neat to
be able to write something of quality and depth and then be able to
send it out to an audience. Its a way of me of me just being myself.
If you notice my lack of presence around Honors or groups in general,
you can see that I don't really have many friends. I have people who I
talk to, but I rarely spend time with people other than myself. Not
that I'm too good to be around the presence of others, but rather that
I prefer to remain alone (or, also, that I am afraid to be around
other people and don't want to be perpetually rejected because I am so
inadequate of a man). Writing poems is a way for me to remain in
contact with others. One of my goals is to become more socially active
with people. Often, I do not do so because I don't like dealing with
people because there's no consistancy and it brings me into contact
with parts of myself that I'm not comfortable with.

There are so many levels as to why I write poems. One just is that I'm
that kind of person, so I do. *sigh* i could write a book on this.

Does that shed any light on some reasons why I write poems. Off the
top of my head, that's a listing of why I do so. Perhaps, it can also
give you a better idea of the person that I am.

I hear you're having a birthday pretty soon. Enjoy! Youth does so
quickly slip away into eternity. Remember, after 21, you're supposed
to stop counting (and if we don't count, do we ever really grow old?)!

Take care,

Michael

> From:     TTU::LRC7812      "Lucas R Craven"  6-FEB-1999 02:15:11.74
> To: MICHAEL
> CC:
> Subj:     your poems
>
> michael, i have alwasy wanted to tell you that i think your poems
> that you send out are very powerful and i think you seem to really
> chuck them full of emotion. i wanted to ask you a question, out of
> curiosity. how does the act of writing the poems affect you? does it
> feel like a release of tension or other emotions, or what? i was
> just curious. what does it fulfill, or not fulfill in you, and in
> ywhat you are looking for, or not looking for? i know it's a vague
> question, but i was just wondering. thanks for the poems. :)
>
> Lucas
