"Imagine life as a game in which you are juggling some five balls in
  the air. You name them work, family, health, friends and spirit - and
  you're keeping all of these in the air. You will soon understand that
  work is a rubber ball. If you drop it, it will bounce back.  But the
  other four balls family, health, friends and spirit - are made of glass.
  If you drop one of these, they will be irrevocably scuffed, marked,
  nicked, damaged or even shattered. They will never be the same. You
  must understand that and strive for balance in your life.

  How?

  Don't undermine your worth by comparing yourself  with others. It is
  because we are different that each of us is special.

  Don't set your goals by what other people deem important. Only you
  know what is best for you.

  Don't take for granted the things closest to your heart. Cling to
  them as they would your life, for without them, life is meaningless.

  Don't let your life slip through your fingers by living in the past
  or for the future. By living your life one day at a time, you live
  ALL the days of your life.

  Don't give up when you still have something to give. Nothing is
  really over until the moment you stop trying.  Don't be afraid to
  admit that you are less than perfect. It is this fragile thread that
  binds us to each together.

  Don't be afraid to encounter risks. It is by taking chances that we
  learn how to be brave.

  Don't shut love out of your life by saying it's impossible to find.
  The quickest way to receive love is to give it; the fastest way to
  lose love is to hold it too tightly; and the best way to keep love
  is to give it wings.

  Don't run through life so fast that you forget not only where you've
  been, but also where you are going.

  Don't forget, a person's greatest emotional need is to feel appreciated.

  Don't be afraid to learn. Knowledge is weightless, a treasure you
  can always carry easily.

  Don't use time or words carelessly. Neither can be retrieved.

  Life is not a race, but a journey to be savored each step of the way.
  Yesterday is history, Tomorrow is a Mystery and Today is a gift:
  that's why we call it 'The Present.'"

      -- from a speech by the CEO of Coca-Cola


