

From: TTU::MER6957      "MICHAEL ROETTGER"  3-JAN-2000 12:24:52.19
To:   @MENTOR
CC:   MER6957
Subj: Suicide info...

I've just finished reading _Night Falls Fast_ by Kay Jamison, a noted
expert in the field of suicide and manic depression. I've found some
interesting facts that I thought I would share with everyone. I'm glad
to have finally gotten around to reading on this subject; having been
plagued with suicidal thoughts on and off for the past three years, I
am glad to gain new insights to the subject.

-Michael

__________________

-suicide is defined by the CDC as a "death from injury, poisoning, or
suffocation where there is evidence from injury, poisoning, or
suffocation." Suicide attempts are distinguished from suicidal
thoughts by the action of an individual to take his or her own life..

-suicide rates have been calculated to be underestimated between 10 to
50 percent in recent studies.

-30,000 Americans commit suicide annually. 500,000 Americans attempt
suicide in a manner serious enough to require medical treatment every
year. Studies indicate that the number of suicide attempts have
doubled or tripled in recent decades.

-In death of males under 35, suicide in the 1990's has often equaled
or surpassed deaths from HIV/AIDS. Worldwide, 1.8% of the world's 59
million deaths occur from suicide annually. 40% of all world suicides
occur in China.

-Among college students, suicide is the second leading cause of death.
A 1995 CDC survey found that one in ten college students had drawn up
a suicide plan during the previous year.

- 20% of U.S. high school students in a 1997 survey (n=20000) had
seriously considered suicide in the last year. Another survey found
that 1 in 10 of U.S. high school students had considered suicide
during the previous year.

-women are two to three times more likely to attempt suicide than men,
but men are four times more likely to kill themselves with women.
Women tend to prefer poisons, wrist slashing, or drug overdoses. Men
tend to prefer firearms and poisons.

-Of those who attempt suicide, 10 to 15 percent will eventually die
from committing suicide in long-term studies.

-Suicide is closely correlated with mental illness. 90% of those who
commit suicide have a diagnosable psychiatric illness. 30-70 percent
who those who commit suicide have mood disorders.

-Compared to the general population, those suffering from depression
are 20 times more likely to commit suicide, those suffering from
substance abuse are 15 times more likely to commit suicide, and those
who have attempted suicide before are 40 time more likely to commit
suicide.

-of those who commit suicide from severe mental anguish, the pain is
often perceived to be dark, unrelenting, and unexplainable. Reckless
and violent behaviors also tend to frequently occur in those with
suicidal thoughts.

-Suicide is also closely correlated with substance abuse or alcohol.

-In the U.S., firearms are responsible for 60% of all suicides.
Strangulation and drug overdoses also account for 25% of suicides.

-Studies have correlated genetic factors and suicide. Mental illness,
especially manic depression, are believed to an underlying cause. Lack
of serotonin is believed to help contribute to suicidal thoughts.

-scientists, composers, writers and top businessmen are five times
more likely to commit suicide than the general population.

-Suicide is often associated with impulse. More than half of suicide
attempts are made within the context of a premeditation period of less
than five minutes. Those who commit suicide are generally associated
with impulsive, aggressive, and agitated demeanors.

-Suicide attempts result from triggering events. These triggers are
often a result of severe mental pain, feelings of loneliness and
helplessness, and impulsive, violent behaviors. Sleep loss is often
associated with these triggers, especially in manic episodes.

-Most suicide attempts occur between 7 a.m. and 4 p.m. Suicides also
occur more frequently during the spring and summer.

-Lithium treatments have been found to be 70% successful in preventing
suicides. Antidepressants have been found to not be as effective.
Omega- 3 fatty acids have also been shown to dramatically lower
suicide rates.

-For those at risk of suicide, becoming well-informed about mental
illness, being actively involved in clinical care, ensuring quality
medical and psychological treatment is received, removing potential
suicide tools (e.g., firearms, pills, razor blades, etc.) from the
home, and writing up plans for dealing with relapses or emergencies
are deemed excellent prevention strategies.

-Friends and family of suicidal individuals can respond by becoming
informed, learning signs of suicide for the individual, creating a
support network, and seeing that treatment for suicidal episodes is
sought by professionals.

-Nearly a third of those who kill themselves visit a physician the
week before they die; one-half visit a physician a month before they
die.

-culture often contributes to suicide. Media coverage and casting
suicide in a favorable light has been shown to positively correlate
with suicide attempts.
