From: IN%"elw@eckhart.ml.org" 15-DEC-1998 22:55:50.13
To:   IN%"ajb5383@tntech.edu"  "journal dis list -- Aaron Bibb",
IN%"ars9648@tntech.edu"  "Andrew Schnell", IN%"art2687@tntech.edu"  "Andy
Trent", IN%"cmb1033@tntech.edu"  "Chris Berry", IN%"jlb9118@tntech.edu"
"john burns", IN%"chood@tntech.edu"  "Dr. Conn
CC:
Subj: j: radical empathy

this is from the night of connie's christmas party. well, saturday
morning, really.  look at the date adn time and figure it out  :)
this was a head dump.  typing as fast as i could, and trying to get it all
down so i could sleep and not bounce much of it.  i didn't send it out
earlier because it was finals week.  most of us don't read very much
during finals week, as connie pointed out. :)

thank you all.  ()

--elijah

---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Sat, 5 Dec 1998 05:20:49 -0600 (U^A)
From: "Elijah L. Wright" <elw@eckhart.ml.org>
To: "Dr. Connie Hood" <chood@tntech.edu>
Subject: j: radical empathy


this is all really weird.  i was getting lots of odd things up when i was
writing that i didn't think had anythign to do with anything.  but they
do.  they really do.  :)

ask me probing questions so that i can write some more?  it would be so
much easier if my head would just break at like 3PM so you have time to
play with me.....   :)

love,
--elijah

----------------------

god, i like it here.  it feels good.  :)  in me, and not in me too.
i feel very decentered.  like my head is very big and my brain is kind of
rattling around inside it.

(decentered meaning 'not here' rather than unbalanced....)

um.  talk about dennis.

i don't know what to say, really.  i was hearing the things that he was
saying, from a deep place to a deep place, and it blew me away.  i knew
something was going on.  it looked important when he was talking to
melissa, and afterwards when he was sitting in the floor thinking and
feeling pained.

at the point where he started talking and you asked us to listen, i made
an intuitive kind of decision to drop like a rock and be there as whatever
i needed to be.  i let go, in a big way.  i was already on the way to
relaxing as a way of trying to get this knot off of my shoulder that is
still hurting me, so it was not a hard thing to sit up and breathe and
close my eyes and roll over into listener.

i got really floored when he started talking.  i was really very very
impressed.   i could hear the honesty, and i'm not used to hearing that
from him.  so i was looking up at the ceiling and saying 'thank god,
finally' and just thinking about how cool it was for him to be saying the
things that he was saying.

then i dropped another notch cognitively, and all hell broke loose.

what the hell does it matter if someone hurts me?  i don't care.  let them
do it.  blessed be.

i was trying with a whole lot of effort tonight to do one-point focusing
on the field that i get from each person as they are talking.  during and
after what dennis was saying, in particular.  closing my eyes and
*stretching* toward each person, mentally and ... well, whatever you call
that weird non-thought thing that loving is.

wholly accepting.  and wholly honest about who people are.  i like being
able to say that without having to worry about it being a lie.  i should
worry, i suppose, but that's another whole realm of things that i can't
even approach seeing.  i can't 'feel' any holes in the spike that i was
in.  maybe i will see them later.  i don't know.

this place feels like a racecar, or a firehose with lots of high-pressure
water.  or like a watering can in a flower garden.  slowly, carefully, but
powerfully and accurately.

this is a less rampant version of the compassion shift that went on at LT.
in that instance, i was getting incredible highs and floating around with
lots of bullshit stuff pinging off my consciousness.  lowered ego bounds,
but noisily.  and painfully.  it was quick-and-dirty.

this is different.  this is much quieter, and a lot more comfortable.  at
the same time, though, it hurts like hell.  depending on where i'm focused
at the moment.

you were talking about the starving children or peasants in africa.  those
people matter, from here.  more than i do.  on the same level as family
members.   close, close, close, there.

this is not me devaluing myself and wanting 'out' so that i don't have to
wrok on my crap.  well, to an extent that is always there.  but, in this
state of mind, i can give whatever i need to be giving.  Love.  what else
do i have to give?  Nothing.

ego sum pauper
nihil habeo
cor meum dabo

makes a lot more sense now than it ever has before.

i'm trying to figure out just exactly how it is that i can love every
person in the world so much.  i can't leave anyone out.  i have to get
every single person in there, or the whole thing falls apart.  i remember
so many people.... teresa, her fiance, the kid who always stole my
toboggan on the school bus in elementary school, my parents, my
kindergarten teachers, my cat that i named after mrs. byers whose belt i
always played with when i was asking her a question in kindergarten..
all of those people matter.  i would give up anything to see one of those
people incrementally happier.  if i could find a way to do it.

so how do i deal with the stress of a failed relationship?  Love.
How do i deal with betrayal by trusted people?  Love.
How do i deal with hate?  Love.
How do i deal with loss? Love.
How do i talk to people? Love.
How do i make people happy? Love.
How do i make a difference? Love.

what else is there?  Nothing.  and the nothing is, and has to be, loved.
you have to love the emptiness, too.

no judgements are possible out of love.

i was listening to steve talk, and for a split second i started to react.
then i listened again, and dropped into what he was saying.  feeling what
he feels, knowing what he knows, grappling with his problems.  he started
making a lot more sense, in that instant.  and choosing to love all of
those things about him.  the pain, the problems, the *life*.  all of those
things have to be loved.

i don't have a choice here.  and i don't want one.  i have ultimate
choice.  and i say yes.  saying no would be ... not wrong, but sorrowful.
i can't come up with a way to say no without it being false.  i have to
lie about *something* to say 'no' to the choice of whether or not to love
more fully.  even if that something is so small that i don't think it will
matter.  it does matter.

if i lie, then i'm not loving someone.  it might even be ME.  so in a very
real sense, the self-esteem has to be here before i can get to a place
where the loving can exist.  by working on self-esteem, i've made a space
for all of this work to get done.  i wonder what else i need to be doing?

one of the things that is here is a sense of connectedness with things.
stronger than usual.  it feels like a river, too, the empathy does.
like being a leaf that floats along on top of the water and then
occasionally gets dunked underneath for a few seconds.

i like drowning.  that's a really powerful image for me.  have i ever told
you about almost drowning when i was 4 or so? i fell into the pool at my
swimming lesson teacher's house and she didn't see it happen and so i was
on the bottom for 5 minutes or so.

the weird thing is that i don't remember panicing.  i remember standing on
the bottom, and walking around a little bit, and not being very good at
it.  and then being upset because i wasn't sure what i was supposed to do.
but being amazed with how pretty the water was from the bottom.   that's a
really weird image.  i didn't think i remembered anything about that...
but i guess i do.  i think i had taken off my water wings on the side (on
the concrete) and then gotten off-balance and slid into the water from the
decking somehow.  i am not sure.  i don't think i fell.  i remember how
the fence around the pool looked when i went there to swim.  it was wood,
painted red-brown.  i had a bugs bunny rubber toy thing that i always
liked to play with in the car, back then.  it was bendable, somehow.
rubber with wires inside so that it was poseable.

i had another toy like that that i can remember losing when we moved from
the house on new windowcliff road.  i remember putting it down on the
retaining wall beside the garage doors on the basement of the house.  i
remember the texture of the walls, and how they were big flat rough rocks
with concrete in between them.  i don't think they were real rocks.  i
think they were fake somehow.  they looked like they had been wire-brushed
or something.  maybe like stucco is sometimes?

i think it was a batman or something.  it was poseable too.  i got it in
gatlinburg, on vacation with my grandparents, parents, and uncle.  i think
he and my aunt had gotten divorced at about that time.  i don't remember
her being around then.  i remember being around her one time very
specifically.  we were in the entry hall at my grandparents house in green
hills and she said something nasty about little kids.  i think.  she was
not very nice.  ummmmmm.  is it fair to judge someone's myers-briggs type
based on memories from when you were 4-5 years old?  seems kind of weird.
ISTJ.  i don't like putting her there because i know some great istj's.

[i remember having dreams for several, several years where i'd go back and
dig up teh batman toy out of the dirt or something.  i still have them,
sometimes.  i haven't in 4 or 5 years, but i've had bigger problems
lately, you know?  :)  i have another dream that is recognizably a
stylized version of the garden patch and the creek running behind the
house on new windowcliff road.  complete with a whirlpool/vortex thing
that everything gets sucked into.  you go through the garden, through the
swampy place, down a hill, and into a stream.  ]

that last paragraph was written at the end, and belongs between teh
stories about the batman toy and the evil aunt  :)

wait a minute.  i'm slipping, now.  i have to love that event and the
people there too.

let me slip to a more interesting istj.  one that i don't have shit with.
i was talking to erin glass today.  i usually class her as an istj, even
though i'm not really sure about that.  maybe it helps to bundle people
into categories where you don't think that they fit so that it breaks down
defenses that you have about those categories.

we had an absolutely great conversation.  about nothing special.  i really
value that.  i'm pretty sure that she did, too.  she looked sad when she
had to get up and leave the office.  we had been laughing and carrying on
and just generally enjoying being finished with school for a while.  i
don't know what else to say about it.

the attraction to another human being is incredibly strong for me.  if i'm
unbalanced, i'll confuse it with a relationship need.  sometimes that's
what it is, but sometimes it isn't.  and i usually don't differentiate
very well.

it kicks butt to talk to someone, see their soul shining out, and then
just keep talking.  sometimes when that happens i can shift and talk to
that place down deeper inside.  and sometimes not.   usually not.  i am
not that good yet, i guess.    usually i'm not that conscious of what is
going on in the conversation.  especially if i didn't come into it as
soemthing that i expected to be mindful about, or to want to be mindful
about.

i think i probably need to work more on honesty there.  talking to joe
average on his level, about the things that we all have in common.  that
matters more than anything else in the world.  we're all human, after all.
if we go around and intellectualize or cultize ourselves, all we're doing
is fulfilling our own needs.  the difference between awake and asleep is
seeing the needs.  i think.  part of it, at least.  maybe the willingness
to search.  that would help.

 i am coming to a place where 'who' or 'how' or 'why' or 'when'
don't matter.  i tried to convince wayne earlier this fall that he could
love people without any regard for what they look like.  that the physical
relationship and appearance doesn't matter as much as he thinks that it
does.  so far, i haven't managed to get him to agree with me.

the physical has nothing to do with whether or not you can love somebody.
that's not love.  that's need-fulfillment.  both physical and emotional
neediness runs rampant for everyone.

people walk around saying that love is an absence of expectations of
someone.  but i don't think that they really believe that.  not at a gut
level.  it feels more like people walking around playing the game and
feeling like that's the 'best way' or the 'way that works'.  i have been
walking around feeling like the way that i see love is some sort of
deviant picture that is probably chock full of holes.  maybe i'm wrong.
maybe i'm doing something *right* here.  it sure does feel like it.

i can tell i'm coming down off of this.  at the same time, though, i can
tell that something is sticking.  my head feels different.  like i have a
golf ball stuck behind my left temple and about 2 inches toward the back
of my head.  so it is pretty much left of dead center in my head.

there is a stillness about not being in the spike anymore.  it is almost
more interesting than the rush of energy was.

i just noticed that the weird visual stuff i was doing before (swirling
type things... like the ceiling waving at me..) are back.  i looked at my
wallet lying on the table with a particular kind of intentness and the
silly thing kind of waggled at me.  it didn't really move, but it looked
like the corners were bending back and forth.  you can blame that on eye
fluctuations, but when three corners move and the fourth does not then
that's sort of odd.  especially when you're perpendicular to the end of
the wallet as it lies flat upon the table.


umm.  frustration from earlier.  i said something about hearing a weird
thing in people as they were talking about their pictures of mentor
through the filter of having a discussion about confidentiality and secret
cultish stuff.....  but i couldn't explain it then.

what i was hearing was a lot of people saying what it was that they needed
this group to be for them.  they weren't using words, and they weren't
saying things that were directly related, but that was what i was hearing.
i was trying to be & stay objective, but i wasn't having much luck.

my primers were michael and melissa.  michael said something about going
around and awakening the essences in people..... that felt very
inappropriate.  and then melissa said something else.  i'm now blanking it
out.  crap.

i guess what is there is that people have their own ideas about what
things need to be.  and i don't perceive many people seeing very clearly
that their ideas and needs and wants affect the way that they interact
with the world.  god knows that mine do....

i sound ego-driven.  or something else.  i can't tell what it is.  the
last three paragraphs are sort of weird.  i don't like writing them.  i
don't like talking about authority because it scares me sometimes.  i am
afraid that people are going to slash at me for it.  that tends  to
happen, sometimes.  and i basically told people that it was a hot button.
i don't know if i have the guts to stick this out where they can read it
(or anything) and risk having that button slammed on.

i am not so sure that it is as reactive a place as it was before.  i bet
it is better, now, than it was a few weeks or a month or so ago.  i feel a
lot better now than i did then...  things are different and the same.  :)


umm.  i need to get back on task.  i want to be talking about empathy.  i
am quickly running out of steam.  i wish i had someone here to give me a
backrub and make me feel nice.

empathy is part of washing the dishes.  if i wash the dishes, i get peace
from knowing that they are done, done well, and done *now*.  i give up
time that i could spend socializing in the basement and being mindless,
but i give someone else the gift of being able to be there and do that.
socializing in the basement has value, too.  i'd rather do that than wash
the dishes, most of the time.  but the dishes have value to me until
someone else decides that they need to be washing them.  when someone else
decides that they're going to take that upon themselves, i will gladly let
them.  mark and heather are exempt from that, as far as i'm concerned.
i've seen them both wash enough dishes and cook for others enough that i
figure they have learned their lessons.  time for someone new.  :)

and washing the dishes gets them clean before the food has time to cake up
on them and get hard.  i would rather that not happen.  it takes too much
work to wash and get them really clean after the food dries on them.

hee.  i'll hop back up to relationships and empathy.

i am not sure how empathy is supposed to work with a relationship.  i've
not had a serious one lately to play with.  :)  i have no idea how to
distinguish between the level that you would do with a significant other
and the level that you would do with a very close friend or a soulmate.
and i don't know if either of those levels differ from what you get with
the whole world when you are walking around broken open about it.

i'm not sure what else i should be talking about.  there are lots of
things here that i could probably talk about, but i'm not seeing them.

empathy is about risk.  the more risk you can take, the stronger empathy
can be.

empathy is not about risk.  empathy is constant, but in flux too.  i hate
it when i get knotted up over words.

i still argue that you can't teach empathy.  you *do* it, you don't teach
it.  :)

i need sleep now.  m-u-s-t--r-e-s-t......

love,
--elijah



