We convince ourselves life will be better once we get married, have a baby,
Then another.  Then we are frustrated that the kids aren't old enough and
we will be more content when they are.  After that, we are frustrated that
we have teenagers to deal with.  We will certainly be happy when they are
out of that stage.  We tell ourselves that life will be complete when our
spouse gets his or her act together, when we get a nicer car,  are able to
go on a nice vacation...when we retire.

The truth is, there is no better time to be happy than right now.  If not
now, when?  Your life will always be filled with challenge.  It's best to
admit this to yourself and decide to be happy anyway.   For a long time it
had seemed to me that life was about to begin - real life.   But there was
always some obstacle in the way, something to be gotten through first, some
unfinished business, time still to be served, a debt to be paid.  Then life
would begin.  At last it dawned on me that these obstacles were my life.

This perspective has helped me to see there is no way to happiness.
Happiness is the way.  So treasure every moment that you have.  And
treasure it more because you shared it with someone special enough to spend
your time with...and
Remember that time waits for no one.  So stop waiting until you finish
school, until you go back to school, until you lose 10 pounds, until you
gain 10 pounds, until you have kids, until your kids leave the house, until
you start work, until you retire, until you get married, until you get
divorced, until Friday night, until Sunday morning, until you get a new car
or home, until your car is paid off, until Spring, until Summer, until
Fall, until Winter, until you are off welfare, until the first or
fifteenth, until your song come on, until you've had a drink, until you've
sobered up, until you quit smoking, until you die, until you are born
again...to decide that there is no time better than right now to be happy.

Work like you don't need the money, Love like you've never been hurt, and
dance
like no one's watching!

Happiness is a journey, not a destination!



                                - Anonymous




later,
cb

