
Gail Sheehy's Ten Hallmarks of Well-Being

1. "my life has meaning and direction."
  this is the characteristic that correlates most closely with optimum life
satisfaction.  people of high well-being find meaning in an involvement
with something beyond themselves: a work, an idea, other people, a social
objective.
  if such a commitment gives their lives meaning, it appears to be their
long-range vision of the future that gives high-satisfaction people
direction.
that power can be cultivated.

2. "i have experienced one or more important transitions in my adult years,
and i have handled these in an unusual, personal, or creative way."
  people of high well-being are not insulated from difficult passages.  on
the contrary, they are the *most* likely to report having confronted at least
one important passage or transition and having made a major change in their
outlook, values, personal affiliations, or career.  this contradicts the
widespread assumption that a consistent life with no great changes or
surprises is the most rewarding.  far from it.
  coming up with creative solutions to common life crises registered
clearly in every sample as characteristic of adults who enjoy optimum satisfaction.
not that these people tend toward having exotic life-styles.  they are, simply,
a little more courageous in facing reality and a lot more resourceful in
thinking up ways to extend their capacities than people who wait for life's events
to happen to them by chance or who sit around and complain about them.
  people of low satisfaction often become obsessed or depressed about roads
not taken in the past. toward the future these people may adopt a "this or
nothing" attitude and as a result feel cheated if they do not get what they want.
unable to make satisfactory compromises with their weaknesses or desires or
to dare to take other avenues, they may become soured, believing that life is
unfair to them, that they have been singled out for an injustice, or that
they are simply no good.  instead of turning their energies toward handling the
transition at hand, or anticipating the future, they often become
relentlessly negative and mired in the past.  they look backward for scapegoats or
flaws in themselves to blame for their current trap or dilemma.

3. "i rarely feel cheated or disappointed by life."
  how they respond to failure is another of the signal differences between
high- and low-satisfaction people.  as might be expected, the most
contented people are less likely to report having failed in the first place.  in
actuality, some of them would be seen by others as having taken a fall, but
they have recast the experience in their minds, erased the outcome from the
error column, and come to see it as a plus.
  the important thing is that roughly half of all the high-satisfaction
people *have indeed failed* "at a major personal or professional endeavor."  what
is different about them is their response:
  having failed, almost every one of them found it a useful experience and
say they are better off for it.*
* all but two to three people in the uppermost quadrant of life
satisfaction in every sample saw their failures as constructive.

4. "i have already attained several of the long-term goals that are
important to me."
  the same three long-range goals held up across the board as most
important to Americans at all satisfaction levels: a comfortable life, family
security, and a sense of accomplishment.
  people in every group agreed on the three things most worth striving for,
but more than half the high-satisfaction people in every sample said they
already had attained a comfortable life, family security, and a sense of
accomplishment.  they had also achieved mature love, true friendship,
freedom to make independent choices, self-respect, and an exciting life.  no
wonder they're content!

5. "i am pleased with my personal growth and development."
  when it came to the personal characteristics most highly prized by all,
men and women throughout the surveys aspired to the same three:
  being honest, loving, and responsible.
  again, the people who are well pleased with their lives are likely to say
that these qualities already describe them.  and the optimally satisfied
reflect some additional qualities:
  the happiest women are also ambitious, courageous, knowledgeable, open to
new experiences, and playful, and they have a sense of humor.
  the most-satisfied men are also comfortable with intimacy, courageous,
open to new experiences, physically fit, and able to lead effectively.

6. "i am in love; my partner and i love mutually."
  whether married, divorced, cohabiting, or commuting to be with a lover in
beirut, people of high well-being usually love mutually.  they are rarely
involved in relationships in which one exploits for services and the other
depends for security, or in which one loves and the other consents to be
loved.
(ordinarily, when the weight of affection and commitment lists to one side,
it is the woman who loves more and the man who feels more uncomfortable about
it.)
  people of high satisfaction not only tend to spend more time than average
people with the person they love; they want even more time to spend.  an
impressive number described finding a new tolerance and companionship with
their mates as one of the signal experiences of their middle adult years.
many also reported a new level of sexual pleasure sometime in their thirties,
forties, or fifties.  low-satisfaction people rarely mention these
experiences.

7. "i have many friends."
  very few relationships offer loyalty, forgiveness, and reciprocal human
nourishment.  full-time wives used to, and certain long-term husbands.
beyond that--and many americans are beyond either today--people are pretty much
limited to religion, therapy, and friends.
  the numbers say it eloquently in this instance.  optimally satisfied
people have more friends.  along with finding it easier to love than most other
people, they probably are more lovable.  in fact, they enjoy roughly twice
as many friends as the average person in my surveys.  when the chips are down,
they have more people they can count on for understanding and support.
  a somewhat less intimate aspect of friendship shows up as important to
high-satisfaction people.  a majority of them have had a mentor, often more
than one.  in this regard, men have the advantage.

8. "i am a cheerful person."
  that optimism is evident everywhere in the outlook of the most contented
is to be expected.  what is intriguing is that people of high well-being
seldom mention chronic depression as one of the hallmarks of a whole stage of
adult life.  (delia barnes is an exception in this respect.)  for low-well-being
people, "being seriously depressed and discontented" shows up significantly
among the 22- to 28-year-olds and continues to be one of the three feelings
most characteristic of every life stage.  twenty to thirty years later, the
distance between those of high and low well-being is so vast that mere life
experiences fail to explain the gulf.  some of it may be biochemical in
origin--more about that later.
  being cheerful not only makes it more pleasant to live with oneself; a
person with a positive outlook is more likely to attract friendship and love,
which promise in turn the richer intimacy and emotional supports that
characterize overall life satisfaction.
  people who allow themselves to become soured on life often set in motion
a self-reinforcing cycle.  their self-pity becomes so off-putting that it
deprives them of the friends and help they otherwise would deserve and that
might restore their buoyancy.

9. "i am not thin-skinned or sensitive to criticism."
  the people of highest well-being apparently have learned to distinguish
between their ongoing intrinsic worth and their fluctuating extrinsic
value. this is demonstrated by their reaction to criticism as well as to failure.

  a person of high well-being does not perceive an attack on his or
her work or ideas as a reflection on his or her innate value as a
person. as a result, he neither reacts with uncontrolled anger or
defensiveness nor absorbs the blow in some vital organ, only to have
it erupt later in physical symptoms. even when satisfied people agree
with the criticism, it does not wash out their sense of self.

10. "i have no major fears."
  it is commmon for young people (those under 28) to worry about "not
advancing fast enough" and to fear that "others will find out i'm not
as good as they think." but the least-satisfied adults also worry as
early as their mid-twenties that "time is running out."
  how does that compare with the experience of those who exhibit the most
satisfaction?  they are more likely than anyone else to say, "i feel secure
enough to stop running and struggling, to relax and open myself to new
feelings."
  high-well-being people seldom describe themselves as feeling "locked in,"
and they register awareness of time running out only when they reach their late
forties.  what is even more extraordinary, they report no major fear at any
stage of adult life.
  common fears among the unhappiest people are of feeling lonely, messing
up their personal lives, being locked in by their work; and, among those over
45, of no longer being attractive, being abandoned, or being overtaken by
illness.
  in every group the most satisfied are also more likely to be
religious. most were raised in strong religious traditions, although
by midlife they frequently had discarded dogma and repudiated
conformity in favor of forging their own relationship to the Divine.


