From: TTU::JMR4097      "James Rushing" 12-DEC-1997 11:59:51.62
To:   COEUR
CC:   JMR4097
Subj: my autobiography

      I cried at mass today.

**I confess to Almighty God,
and to you, my brothers and sisters,
that I have sinned through my own fault**

      They weren't tears of remorse, some cloth-rending horror at
bygone evil, though that was there too. No, it was something else. The
deeds were all there, repented for. The betrayal and infidelity. The
lies, the violence, the hidden anger. All the stored-up hatred of
years of impotence and abuse.

The sin of the world.

      What can I do, what can I say in the presence of perfection? How
can I live up to this standard? It's not even the Church's standard,
it's my own, and I have no hope of ever attaining it. It's not that
the values are so high; it's more that I'm so low. I'm like a dancer
who knows the steps perfectly but keeps tripping over his own feet. I
get in my own way.

      But there was something new, something I can't account for.
Something that tore my heart apart, something that shone through the
broken-open lowliness. As I knelt at the pew before mass, I had a
vision. I saw myself as I was, kneeling in the semblance of humility,
but haughty and proud and invincibly. . . right. I saw the falseness,
and it stung, it choked, it bled the life out of me. I struggled to
break through the shell, but it's too strong; it's become animated,
with a life and mission of its own.


**in my thoughts and in my words
in what I have done, and what I have failed to do**

      The funny thing is, I don't remember where it came from. What
have I been so afraid of, what have I hated so passionately that I
would build something like this? There are so many things. I remember,
long ago, a time of joy. Simple joy -- a child's joy, who doesn't
understand the implications of his father's six-pack. Who doesn't
realize that his father needs to feel special, to feel useful and
appreciated, and above all, to feel loved, because he can't do it
himself. He doesn't even know how to ask for it. So he tries to force
it, not understanding that love is given freely or not at all.

      I grew up in several stages in relation to my father. At the
beginnings, of course, he was God, and I remember that. I remember
having an overpowering and colossal respect -- no, awe -- at this man
who made me feel safe. It was such a joy to see him, to be with him. I
remember running out into the driveway when he came home from work
yelling, "Daddy! Daddy!" And he would pick me up and hug me and I felt
so safe and loved and precious. Those times were so pure, so simple. I
knew who was what, and nothing else existed. I had no concept of pain,
real pain. My parents spanked me every so often, for doing things, but
it was quickly forgotten and forgiven. No pain can stand in the way of
that kind of love.

      I remember my mother in those days, but not much. She doesn't
seem real. She has always been a complement to my father, which I
guess was the ideal, but it meant that she never really had her own
shadow. She was always in his. I remember her laughing on the boat in
Mississippi when we were swimming in the pond. She was sitting next to
dad and they were pulling us behind it. I remember her crying after
one of their fights. I remember her being scared when I drank a glass
of bleach (I thought it was water, didn't stop to smell it. You know
how kids are, always in a rush.). She was so terrified. She called the
Poison Control Center and they told her what to do. I wasn't scared,
just really sick and puking my guts out. The stuff tasted awful.

      I remember both my parents being very angry after they
discovered that we had broken into a house down the street. I think we
lived in a trailer park, I don't remember that well. But my brother
and sister and I (I couldn't have been more than four) knew that this
guy had an Etch-a-Sketch and we wanted to play with it. The door was
locked, so we went through the window and were playing with it. We
forgot to leave it when we left, though, and mom made us go back and
apologize for breaking into his house.

      But I digress. My next stage in relation to my father came after
we moved to Tennessee. He couldn't find a job anywhere that he wanted
to work, and was very upset because of it. Here he was, having his
manhood challenged, because he's supposed to be the provider, the
bread-winner, and he doesn't have a job. So he started drinking more
and playing less. I didn't like being around him very much then,
because he would yell at us for no reason, or punish us severely for
any little thing.

      I was still young. I had no idea why he was acting this way. The
only thing I knew was that once I had a loving father and now he
didn't act very loving. He acted like he hated me. So I assumed that
he did, and went around for a year or two feeling very betrayed and
lonely. I hated being around him, but I couldn't help it. I still
loved him very much, and very much needed him to love me. I was afraid
of him -- he was starting to hit me and my brother and mother, and for
less and less provocation, so it was to our best interests to stay out
of his way.

      I don't know anyone in my family, except maybe Buddy, who didn't
think about killing themselves sometime or another growing up then. It
was so damn hard because my father was such a tyrant and so
unpredictable. He might be attentive one minute and be beating you up
the next. Well, it wasn't quite that bad. But you knew that if he was
drinking, your best bet was to stay the hell out of the way until he
went to bed.

      I remember sitting on my bed late one night, after my father had
beat me up for some infraction (I don't remember if it was real or
imagined), crying explosively and holding my Bowie knife. I wanted so
badly just to end the pain. It wasn't that the physical pain was all
that terrible -- by that time I'd lived with the physical violence so
long I was almost inured to it. What was so terrible was not knowing
what to expect. That was the worst of it, I think. I never knew what
he was going to do or be from one moment to the next. Just as an
example: I was in the Scholars' Bowl. In fact, I was the captain my
senior year. One of the most coveted trips for Scholars' Bowl people
was the Florida trip. Every year we went to Florida to compete in a
regional tournament. We never had a chance, of course, but we didn't
care, we were there for the beach. The point is, every year just
before we were ready to leave for the tournament, my father would tell
me that I wasn't going. I argued and pleaded, but he wouldn't budge.
This was usually about a week before the competition, but if I'd done
something to piss him off it could be months before. He'd say, "You
think you're going to Florida? You don't deserve to go to Florida."
And so I'd unpack. Then he'd change his mind and say I could go. Then
he'd go back and say I couldn't. He never actually didn't let me go.
He did, once, wait until the hour before and then relent. I think that
he dug himself into a hole sometimes and didn't know how to back out
gracefully. But it was so damn confusing for me, not knowing how to
view him.

      To go back to the original topic, suicide. I was so confused and
hurting that I didn't see anything but the possibility of escape.
There was a string, too, that wanted to hurt him, but I was so
powerless and impotent against him that the only thing I could do was
hurt myself to try to hurt him. The thing that stopped me, in the end,
was thinking that if I wasn't around there'd be no one to take the
flak for my brothers and sisters, and he'd start hitting them. So I
didn't cut my wrists. Later, in college, I was glad that I didn't. But
not until then.

      I didn't really hate him then, I don't think. I was scared of
him, to be sure. And certainly very wary. I didn't trust him, because
I didn't see that he could be trusted. Who would trust someone who is
likely to stab them in the back the next instant?

      Later, as I grew into my teen years, I started to hate him. He
was so erratic and violent and drunken that I just couldn't stand him.
He knew it; it's hard for a teen to hide what they feel, no matter
what it is. He hated that I hated him. Part of me wants very much to
think that it hurt him that I hated him so much, but I really don't
know. I hope it did; that, at least, would let me know that what I
felt mattered to him. I didn't feel it then.

      He screamed constantly that we didn't respect him, and though it
wasn't true when he first began saying it, it certainly was toward the
end. I had no respect for him at all. I felt deeply that he had done
nothing to earn my respect, and that as a human being I had the right
to demand that he earn it. He didn't feel the same way, so I was
careful not to share this view with him. He said once that simply
being my father was enough for me to respect him, but I knew that was
bullshit -- any idiot with a dick and a pair of balls can be a father.
It takes much more to be one worthy of respect.

      In all fairness, it wasn't just him. I was a rebellious
teen-ager; I didn't respect many people. The people I respected were
ones that I saw were strong, balanced, and secure enough that they
didn't have to hurt people to prove how secure they were. There
weren't many people like that, but I could look around and notice how
many of my friends didn't have to live in the environment that I did.
I had assumed, growing up, that the way I grew up was "normal." As I
paid more attention, I knew that it simply wasn't the case.

From then on, it became, as I saw it, a battle of attrition, where he
was trying to tear me down and I was holding out until I could leave.
I met graduation day, and the day I came to college, with no tears
whatsoever, but rather with a joyous shout, "I'm free!"

      I didn't realize how untrue that was at the time. I was so
focused on just getting out of the house that I didn't know how much
work I had to do.

But then, there were many things I didn't know about.

      Sex, for instance. I had no clue. The closest I had come to sex
(with some exceptions, that I'll talk later) was a high school
girlfriend named Jossette. She's in Ohio now, with a husband and an
incredibly beautiful baby daughter named Jasmine. She was easy.
Jossette, that is, not Jasmine. Everyone knew it, and Jossette made no
pretenses at being pure; she liked sex and was very free with her
favors. I don't know if she ever cheated on me, but it wouldn't
surprise me.

      Thinking back on those experiences, I'm kind of abashed. Not
because of what I did, you understand, but because of what I was
afraid to do. Jossette and I never had sex -- I was still a virgin,
and deathly afraid (though I wouldn't admit that to myself) -- and I
told myself that it was because I didn't have condoms, I was afraid of
catching a disease, afraid of getting her pregnant, and lots of other
things that were lies. The real reason was I was afraid of having sex.
I had never done it before, obviously, and I didn't want to fail to
meet her expectations. I didn't want to fail to meet mine, either.
Plus, I was still incredibly repressed and fundamentalist Christian
and there was a voice in the back of my head that was whispering that
I would go to hell if I had sex with this scarlet woman. All this
amounted to us kissing a lot, and me being horny as hell but never
doing anything about it.

She finally left me, for someone who would have sex with her, I imagine.

**. . . that I have sinned through my own fault,
in my thoughts and in my words,
in what I have done, and what I have failed to do. . .**

      I may as well do the sexual thread of this story. Which means
going way back to when I was very young, I guess about three. I was
abused (though I'm not at all sure that's the right word, because I
consented, insofar as a 3-year-old can consent) by my uncle. I only
remember one incident, and that is of me sucking his dick and thinking
that he urinated on me. Thinking back, he probably came and I mistook
the salty taste for urine, because I had never come in contact with
semen before. I remember it being in my hair, and trying to wipe it
out. I didn't feel ashamed or bad or anything. I felt bad because my
hair was messed up. The strangest part is this. I have a vivid memory
of me standing in the middle of my parents and grandparents and them
pointing at me and laughing. I cannot imagine that my parents would
laugh at me because my uncle had come on my face. Yet the memory is
there. I remember feeling very bad and betrayed, because they were
laughing at me and I was feeling bad. I am sure that this is at least
a thread in the string I have about being laughed at. Being laughed at
instantly pulls up feelings of shame and paranoia and betrayal,
particularly if it's someone that I care about.

      The next incident comes (no pun intended) a few years later. I
don't know how old I was, but I was too young to have an erection, and
it was before we came to Tennessee, so I was probably around 6 or 7.
The son of a friend of my father's was sleeping in the same room as me
and my cousin Burl Lee. We were staying there that night because we
were on our way somewhere and needed to spend the night. I remember
that he had a daughter (my dad's friend, not Burl, Burl was my age)
and I really wanted to touch her. I was just starting to be fascinated
by the female body, and hers certainly fascinated me. But when this
guy (don't remember his name. . . maybe Tommy. I'll call him that)
asked me and Burl to suck him off, I didn't really want to. I wanted
more to go and touch the girl. Tommy had Burl suck him for a while, to
show me that it was ok, and then I went down on him. He grabbed my
head and pushed it down on his dick, and I was gagging. I remember him
saying, "Suck on the balls!" and he kept pushing me down onto him. I
couldn't breathe, and I didn't want to do it any more, so I stopped
and got up. I remember him sucking me to try to get me to do it, but
my dick was flaccid because I was too young to get erect.

      I don't remember how old he was. Old enough to have an erection,
but he didn't have pubic hair, or at least I don't remember it. So
probably about 12 or 13. Maybe younger. I never told anyone about
either of these incidents, because I was ashamed of the second one and
I figured everyone knew the first. Later, I forgot them, until once
during making love with Heather the memories came back and assaulted
me.

      Those were the only homosexual encounters I ever had. There's a
voice in my head that wonders what it would be like now, but it's not
strong enough for me to try it. Particularly since I have another
commitment, and it's to a woman.

**. . . through my own fault
in my thoughts and in my words,
in what I have done, and what I have failed to do**

      My next sexual experience was a one-night stand when we were
both drunk. I consider this to be when I lost my virginity, and unless
you look at my life in a very peculiar way, I'm sure you'll agree.

      This girl, let's call her Sarah, was a depressed, overweight,
and angry woman. She was a bit older than I was, but I've never paid
much attention to age anyway, as we'll see later. We interacted quite
a bit to begin with, because she was doing the things that I wanted to
-- she was having sex and talking about it, she was drinking, she was
intelligent, and if she wasn't incredibly attractive she made up for
it by being admirable, to my eyes anyway.

She was attracted to me, though I wasn't really aware of that until
she kissed me. There were lots of things I wasn't aware of.

      We were at a party. She and Chris and I had decided to have one,
I don't remember why, I'm sure it was one of those all-important
reasons that anyone has a party. So we got everyone together, and
decided we'd have a wine party, with cheese fondue and burgundy and
stuff. So we got the stuff together and gathered at her house. There
were lots of people there, but most of us were introverts and so we
were pretty quiet. I was drinking Zima, having already determined my
affinity for it and my hatred for beer. We started doing a drinking
game -- I don't remember what it's called, but it's like Suck and
Blow, except you're passing around a piece of ice -- and Sarah was
sitting next to me.

      I noticed, with mixed feelings, that every time she passed the
ice to me it seemed more and more like a kiss. So later, I wasn't all
that surprised when I went out for a walk and she followed me. I
hadn't intended anything to happen, but apparently she did, because
she led me down to a barn that was down the hill a bit and we started
necking. Things got out of hand -- again, no pun intended -- and I was
afraid, but determined to have sex now that the opportunity was
presented. So we did. It wasn't very good, for lots of reasons. I was
a virgin, and so I came very quickly; we were on the ground, and it
wasn't all that comfortable; and I wasn't comfortable with the idea to
begin with.

      This is sort of a side note. I assumed that if men are
uncomfortable with sex then it means it's harder for them to come, and
it's like that with lots of women. But it wasn't in my case. The more
uncomfortable I was, the easier it was for me to come, with the
exception of oral sex, for reasons that might be apparent. But through
my relationships, as I've become more comfortable with the idea and
the practice of sex, I've been able to control myself a lot better and
it's made sex much more enjoyable.

      As I've said before, I didn't have a clue about sex. And I
didn't know how to treat Sarah now that we'd done it. So I ignored
her. I wouldn't talk with her, I rebuffed her, and just generally
treated her like she didn't exist for almost a year. I didn't realize
I was doing it -- I was running on autopilot so much in those days
that most of my life was slept. I didn't realize until later that I
had hurt her terribly, that she had seen me as a person to love, as
someone to help her stop hurting, instead of a one-night fuck. It
wasn't that I had thought of her that way -- as a one-night stand -- I
just hadn't thought of it at all. As soon as it was over my mind was
working to cover it up, so I wouldn't have to deal with all the
things, all the responsibilities and worries that come with... well,
coming.

      My next tryst was with a married woman. It's still hard to think
of myself as an adulterer, but when I'm being honest, I certainly
can't call it anything else. I committed adultery. At the time, she
was simply a woman in pain and a woman who wanted me, and I responded
to that, not thinking of the consequences. Now, I think, this is the
deepest and most indelible shame.

      For the longest time after our affair I couldn't bear to think
of it in any terms but light. I built it up to be something wonderful,
glorious, something so perfect and beautiful that it couldn't be
wrong. And in a way, it was. It was beautiful being with her; she was
(is?) a caring, sensitive, loving woman. Her husband didn't appreciate
her (and still doesn't, to my knowledge) and I thought to provide that
appreciation. And, of course, the sex. She taught me more about sex
than anyone before or since. Not surprising -- she was an experienced
woman and I was an inexperienced man who was eager to learn. We were
so desperate for something, and it showed in the way we made love. We
made love desperately, with raw abandon, until we were both sore from
it, both knowing that it could never work but wanting very much for it
to be true.

      I speak from myself then. Had I known what I do now, I would
never have gotten involved that way. Knowing that, you must forgive me
some romantic overstatement, but that's where I was at the time. I was
very romantic, and therefore blind to all the things I should have
seen. I should have seen, as I suspect she did, that she would never
leave her husband for me. I should have seen that I was only doing
damage by giving her hope for something that she couldn't have. I
think the biggest difference was that I was nice to her in a way that
she understood. We were both very feeling people, and her husband
wasn't. So she could respond and communicate with me more deeply than
she ever had with either of her husbands. I don't know how she does
with her husband now. I suspect it's still status quo, with her
wanting affection from him in a way that he doesn't know how to give.
But I could not have given her the stability and support that she
needed, for her two children, so perhaps it's for the best.

      What am I saying? Of course it's for the best. She's with her
husband, living well if not happily, and I'm happily committed to a
woman who is not bound, as she was. There is still a part of me that
wonders what might have happened. I would not trade what I have now
for the promise of what might have been then. What I have now is much
more complete, much more clear, and valuable. But part of me wonders.

**. . . in what I have done,
and what I have failed to do. . . **

      My next experience overlapped the married woman; that is, I was
going out with this other woman before I had officially broken off
with the married one. That was a mistake, of course, and caused us
some trouble later, but as you'll doubtless hear me say several times
throughout this, I wasn't thinking.

      I assume it's ok to use her real name. Nearly everyone knows
what happened between me and Kimberly, and if they don't, she's
usually overjoyed to tell them. It's something that hurt both of us
very deeply.

      We met because she yelled at me. I sent some e-mail with the
personal name "Iluvatar, the One" and she replied to it, lambasting me
for daring to take on the name of a god. I was immediately attracted,
because she knew the reference -- anyone who reads Tolkien has to be
interesting. We talked some more, mostly me pursuing, though I didn't
realize that's what I was doing at the time. I sucked her in. She fell
for me hard, which was what I wanted her to do. In fine, I manipulated
her into falling in love with me.

      I don't feel that being defensive is a worthy thing to do, but I
will say some things in explanation. When I say I manipulated her into
falling in love with me, I speak from the present, looking back. Then,
of course, I saw myself fall in love with her, and her respond in
kind. I saw it as an idyllic sort of romance where I was saving her
from her abusive and uncaring boyfriend, and she was showing me her
gratitude for that and for me by having sex with me. It wasn't until
later that the lie broke down. But I'm getting ahead of myself.

      We started out pretty quickly. I had walked her back to her dorm
and, on impulse, kissed her. She looked very surprised and very
pleased. Then, a different day, I remember I had finished doing
whatever I was doing that night, and called her about midnight and
asked if she wanted to go for a walk. In my mind, I just wanted to
talk. I hoped for something more, but never consciously. She was very
happy that I called her and quickly got dressed (I had awakened her, I
think) and came down to meet me. We walked and talked for a while,
then we went to the North Patio and sat with each other and kissed and
made out until about 6 a.m. Callie (her roommate at the time) was
pretty worried about her, and was understandably wary of me.
Kimberly's boyfriend wasn't very pleased, either. I have never been
able to get clear when he and Kimberly broke up; they both seemed to
have different ideas. At any rate, Kimberly left him for me (that's
what I say; she says that she was going to leave him anyway) and we
started going out.

      Remember that my affair was still going on during this time. It
didn't overlap much, only about three days, but it was enough to upset
Kimberly when she knew that I'd been out with the married woman.
Kimberly and I weren't going out at the time, but we were already sort
of involved and Kimberly felt that she already had some claim on me.
My affair was already winding down; the woman felt that she needed to
pay more attention to her husband and stop fooling around, so we sort
of mutually broke it off. She was upset that I started going out with
Kimberly so soon after that, and thought that I had broken off with
her because of Kimberly, but that wasn't the case. I was feeling
guilty about us, and she was too, and I could sense it.

      Kimberly and I were blindly happy for a time. She was a virgin
when we started going out, but that didn't last long; she gave herself
to me on the steps of the Wesley Foundation. Not very romantic, as she
was given to reminding me later in our relationship; but she was eager
and so was I and it was the nearest secluded place. It wasn't all that
good for either of us. It was painful for her and uncomfortable for me
because I came pretty quickly and she didn't come at all. It was
always hard to bring Kimberly to orgasm through intercourse;
cunnilingus was how she mostly got her orgasms from me. I didn't mind
that, but I always felt somehow inadequate because I couldn't bring
her to orgasm through intercourse.

      I'm not sure how to explain this next stage. Kimberly was always
pretty needy and codependent, and so was I, and our needs conflicted
sometimes. I hit the stage in the relationship where I really wanted
my freedom, and my commitment wasn't strong enough to make staying
worth it. But I didn't want to be the bad guy and dump Kimberly, so I
stayed around and tried to convince both of us that I was sincere when
I told her that I loved her. The lie got sickening after a while, but
by that time there were larger problems.

      Let me recast the stage a bit. I'm in a relationship with a girl
who is bipolar; who isn't nearly as mature as I am; and I'm not very
mature at all. I was pretty unhappy in the relationship, but I didn't
really know it because I was trying to convince both of us that I was
ecstatically happy with her. The times when I looked at it head-on
were the times that I wanted to break up with her, but I was so afraid
of being the bad guy that I couldn't go through with it. So it shifted
over passive-aggressive and came out different ways.

      I stood her up for dates. Not many, but enough so that now I can
look back and say that it was a passive aggressive response to my
restlessness and her slashing at me. I didn't talk to her much, and
when I did, it was either judgmental or heavily guarded. Then, as what
I could call the turning point in our relationship, I had an affair on
her.

      I don't really understand how it happened. This girl, let's call
her Amy, was not incredibly attractive, nor did I ever have a thought
about a serious relationship with her. Part of it was, I think, that
she had been raped some years before and I felt a great deal of
compassion for her. Somewhere, I wanted to show her what loving sex
could be like. So I did, ignoring the consequences, and wound up doing
more damage to the three of us than I ever thought imaginable. After
it happened and I went home, I was so guilt- stricken that I could
hardly move. How could I do such a thing? I had betrayed the trust of
a person that loved me. I had cheated on my girlfriend! I couldn't
believe that I could sink to such depths. It completely destroyed any
good picture I had of myself, and I desperately wanted it back but
couldn't believe any good pictures. I thought back to my earlier
mistakes -- Sarah, my affair, other things in my childhood -- and any
hopes of a "good James" picture was gone.

      I confessed to Kimberly, of course. I couldn't bear to have that
lie between us. She took it very hard, and though I asked her not to
tell anyone else, it didn't take her long to have the story spread
among all her 10,000 friends. I didn't want anyone to know because I
didn't want Amy to get hurt, and I didn't want my picture destroyed
any more than it already was. I already had Amy, Kimberly, and myself
beating me up for what I'd done; I couldn't bear to think that all her
friends would hate me too. I thought she would break up with me
(Connie asked me later if cheating on Kimberly was a roundabout way of
getting out of the relationship. I still don't know.) but instead she
hung on, and I didn't have the strength to be even more of an asshole
and ditch her.

      So I hung on too. We lasted until the summer, when, as she was
leaving, I told her that I didn't want to go out with her any more.
She cried, of course, and went home with her mother, who cried with
her and they both cursed men for slime. Which wasn't wrong in my case;
I was just gearing up to throw myself into the abyss.

      I wish I could say that was the end of the relationship.
Unfortunately, although I was strong enough to end it, I wasn't strong
enough to keep it ended. I called her about two weeks later and we
chatted for a while and then I said I wanted to come see her. She was
very surprised, and while I cursed myself for a fool in my head, she
said yes, and so the next weekend I went to see her. We had sex on her
bedroom floor, and we were both hooked for the next few months.

      Ever since the Amy incident, she and Amy had rarely let up
letting me know how much I'd hurt them. This laceration was
unrelenting, and was lasting so fucking long that I was diving into a
black hole just to get away from it. It was the most lost, the most
alone, the most desolate I've ever been. I was being attacked on my
morality, which is my most dear axis, and **I could not defend
myself**. Because they were right. I couldn't stand up for myself when
they said I was slime, because they were right. No, they had the right
to slash me, because I had hurt them both so much by cheating on
Kimberly and by using Amy to do it.

      That was my reasoning, anyway. Those soulless days were the
closest to hell I've ever been. Connie doesn't think it was a black
hole, and I agree with her, but I don't know how else to describe it.
I beat myself into a puddle, and Amy and Kimberly helped. Neither of
them seemed to see or care how much damage they were doing to me, they
were both trying to dig out of the holes they were in and were clawing
me apart in the process.

      Around Thanksgiving I tried again. Up to that time, I was trying
desperately to love Kimberly unconditionally, trying to get her to let
up and stop slashing me, but it wasn't working. Finally, the pain got
to be too much -- it wasn't worth it to try any more. So I told her
that I didn't want to go out with her, or talk with her, or receive
mail from her, any more. I made a mistake, though: I told her that
someday we could be friends. That gave her enough hope to hang on
until I weakened enough for her to pull me back in.

      The way I'm saying this sounds like I'm condemning Kimberly. I'm
not, really. I see how much she manipulated me in those days, but I
also see my needs, my terrible codependent drives, and I understand
that as much as she was pulling I was pushing. I forget, sometimes,
that you don't have the information about me that I do. I tried to be
strong, several times after that, and put up a boundary, but somehow I
could never hold them. I don't know if it was just that my needs were
so powerful, or that I was being dishonest when I set up the boundary,
or just lacked the willpower to hold them, but from Thanksgiving to
about two weeks into the summer Kimberly and I had off and on trysts
with each other, about twice a month. She would come to me, or vice
versa, and I would weaken and give in. I don't think she ever had any
intention of sticking with the boundaries, no matter how much she said
she would. I think her biggest goal was to get me back, and if fucking
me was the way to do it, well, she happily spread her legs.

      One of the things that I did while trying to break off with
Kimberly was to have sex with yet another person. I will call her
Anne. I don't know completely why, though one big reason was that she
was eager and I was horny. One of the things I have learned in my
battles with sex is never to underestimate the power of sheer animal
instinct. I don't have lofty or moral reasons for doing many of the
things that I have done. In many instances, it was simply that I
wanted it and lacked the foresight or the willpower to refuse.

      Anne and I had been friends for a long time. A few months before
we had dallied a little but never actually had sex with each other,
though we both wanted it. So now that I was free from Kimberly I felt
that I was free to have sex with Anne. Which we did. We weren't very
smart about it, though when I discovered that she wasn't using any
form of birth control we quickly started using condoms. Sex with Anne
was ok, but I was still so full of guilt and pain over what had
happened with Kimberly that it sort of cast a pall over anything
sexual for me. No, more than that, it made sex radioactive, so that
anything sexual I did hurt me emotionally. This didn't stop me from
having sex -- the sexual drive and habit was so strong that it would
have taken a lot more pain, and did, to stop it -- but it kept me from
enjoying it as much as I might have.

      Never one to learn a lesson after one, two, or several attempts,
I screwed up with Anne too. I talked to her again recently about our
affair and she apologized to me for using me. We were both using each
other. She was trying to find some way to feel good about herself, and
I was turned on by her, which helped her and got me laid. I think the
most damaging thing I did was never to commit to a relationship with
her. We never really got past the one-night-stand quality of it, never
moved toward anything real. I was afraid to, having just come from
something that had burned me very badly, so I kept pushing her away
when she suggested that we do more than have sex together.

      It hurt her pretty badly, and it's something that I still hurt
over. I wonder with that relationship too, where we would both be if I
had been able, or been willing, to commit to it. Now, she's happily
committed to someone else, and while it's not the match I would have
ideally chosen, there's a voice in me that reminds me that I'm not
really one to judge. My mistakes weigh very heavily on me sometimes,
despite the fact that I've learned from them.

**. . . in what I have done, and what I have failed to do. . .**

      Toward the end of the semester, I wrote a journal in which I
made the vow never to have sex again until I was married. As I looked
over it later, I realized that it was a Perry 7 statement and I was
pleased that I had finally committed to something. It worked, too, for
a while; things fell into place and I lived much more stably. I kept
my commitment for a while, I don't remember how long, if it was a
month or longer. I was happy with the commitment, and happy with the
clarity it provided.

      During the beginning of the summer I was painting Connie's deck.
I knew Kimberly was in town, so I went to her house one night to watch
movies and ended up staying the night. After that, I was really
disappointed in myself. I thought that I would be able to keep the
commitment, but instead I had talked myself out of it and into bed
with Kimberly. It was another blow to my picture of myself, having
just come out of a place where I didn't trust myself and here I was
doing it again. It has taken me almost two years to begin to trust
myself again, mostly because of the work that Heather and I have put
into rebuilding me and building us.

      I started out fast with Heather too. I was hurting terribly
after my last fling with Kimberly, and was struggling very hard to get
my needs under control. At the same time I was trying to build a sort
of a sub-Mentor group, which had Heather, Kimberly, Danyel, Malachi,
and myself in it. Unfortunately, Kimberly and Danyel threw the group
way out of balance. It wasn't completely their fault; I should have
known better than to imbalance the group that way, and I wasn't nearly
clear enough to lead a group like that. So what happened was, in the
name of being honest and open, Danyel and Kimberly slashed at me,
Malachi sided with them, and Heather withdrew. I tried to remain open
to them and let the pain go through me, but it was too much. I started
curling up into a ball again. Connie was concerned that I was going
into a black hole again, and mentioned it to me. Probably as a result
of her noticing, I stopped curling up and started trying to fight
back. They were all shocked at me, and Kimberly and Danyel pouted for
a while, but they started decreasing their attacks on me after that.
It was quite a shock to me to realize that I felt that I had served my
penance and that if Kimberly and Danyel wanted to slash me, they
weren't going to get open shots. I no longer cared as much if I was
the good guy or not, I cared more about them respecting my boundaries
and stopping the pain.

      I digress again. Heather and I had wanted each other for a very
long time, but we were both ignorant that the other had similar
feelings. To begin with, I was very attracted by her body, but after
she decided to begin doing the Work I became more attracted to her
mind and her soul. Not to say that I lost my fascination with her
body, but her mind became more important to me. I wanted to know how
she felt, what she wanted, how she thought. Then, one night, we were
watching _Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead_ and she started
playing with my hair. She was sitting on a beanbag and I had my head
resting against it below her. I felt her stroking my hair and I
trembled every time she touched me. I still didn't know that she
really wanted me, I thought maybe she was just being friendly, but I
took a great leap of faith and started stroking her calf with the
backs of my fingers. I don't think either of us saw the rest of the
movie. Most of my consciousness was forcing myself not to turn around
and see what she really felt. It was absolutely agonizing for the
entire movie. I was so afraid that she would just smile and move away
now that it was over. I turned over and looked in her eyes, and she
didn't move. I touched her face, her hair, her ears, over and over. It
was ecstasy to touch her and know that she enjoyed it. She was
touching me, and her hands were wonderfully soft and gentle. Then I
did something I'd wanted to do for months -- I kissed her. The kiss
was more wonderful than I'd ever dreamed, and left us both trembling.
We continued to kiss and touch for a few more hours, and then she went
home.

      The next day I wasn't sure how to act with her. I didn't know if
she would still feel the same way about me. She walked into the office
while I was working there and we embraced. I could feel her trembling
and I knew that she still felt the same way. I was so happy to be with
her.

      We had a lot of work to do, of course. The beginning stages of
being in love are always wonderful, but the real Work begins after the
glow subsides. We set about learning each other, and made a commitment
early on that growth was one of our mutual goals. We've both stuck to
that, here in our eighth month, and we've both grown an incredible
amount because of it. She's helped me trust myself, and her; she's
helped me to learn to love clearly. I know what commitment means, on a
deeper level than I ever have, and I'm learning deeper levels every
day. I learned that trusting means letting go of fear, but letting go
of fear means letting go of yourself. There is nothing to fear --
there is no self to be hurt -- but until we understand that fully we
continue to be hurt by our fears. I still fear, and I am still hurt,
but I continue to grow in love, in trust, in honesty and openness to
loving, the Path, and to Heather. Perhaps they are the same. Don't
know.

      Perhaps.

**. . . I have sinned through my own fault,
in my thoughts and in my words. . .**

      I think the next facet of this diamond we're building needs to
be Mentor. Mentor has been responsible for providing me with
opportunities to grow, both the ones I've taken and the ones I
haven't. They've all been valuable to me, for different reasons. I
think that, in order to properly explain the roots of who I am, I need
to start before Mentor came into my life.

      I've already given background before college. I feel that the
Real growth started after I was in college, during my Honors English
202 class. Dr. Connie Hood was teaching the class, and though she'd
been trying to draw me in for quite a while, I wasn't ready to settle
down and get Real yet, so she had withdrawn and left me to my devices.
God was being a manipulative son of a bitch, as she is wont to do, and
I was in her (Connie's, not God's) class the next semester.

      English 202 is a survey of British literature from the romantics
to the 20th century. I was bouncing most of the growth stuff in the
course until we got to Tennyson's "In Memoriam A. H. H." When I read
the line, "There lives more faith in honest doubt, / Believe me, than
in half the creeds" it blew my mind apart. Here was someone saying
plainly what I had been striving toward for three years! I had been
trying to find a way to justify the fact that (from my fundamentalist
viewpoint) most of the world was going to hell, either for believing
the wrong thing or for doubting the Truth. I was beginning to doubt my
religion myself, and was already proclaiming myself an atheist, though
I don't think I was comfortable with it until I read that line. Here
was a man who had been through something like what I was going
through, and here was his solution! He was telling me that it was ok
to doubt. It was ok to ask questions. It was such a relief to me
because above all I wanted to know why. Why do we believe what we
believe? Why is it better than what Ahmed believes down the hall? Who
am I to condemn him to hell for his beliefs? For that matter, who is
God to condemn him to hell for his beliefs?

      All this heresy made for a pretty paranoid questor. I was,
metaphorically at least, looking over my shoulder waiting for the
lightning to strike. But the Tennyson helped me to be comfortable with
asking questions. Later, I attended a workshop on T. S. Eliot's "Four
Quartets," which proved to be my first real awakening and assured that
I would work in Mentor.

      The Eliot awakening was surprising, in several ways. I think
mostly it was an intuitive, cognitive awakening -- I simply realized
that there were more complex ways to see the world than I had
previously known. I wrote several pages of journals on the poems,
having had several epiphanies in the course of four poems. There was a
great deal of energy waiting to be released, and once it was cut loose
by the Eliot awakening, I found that my thinking was much faster, much
clearer, and could make connections much easier than before. It was
absolutely amazing. I never imagined that my head could work that
fast. It was even more amazing because I knew my head worked pretty
damn fast before my awakening.

      From then I worked fairly steadily on the things Connie assigned
me. I don't think I've ever heard her say that I give her enough
feedback, so her complaints about it now aren't anything new. I
remember that I attended a workshop on lying and honesty. We were
supposed to write an essay on "when is it ok to lie?" and discuss it
at the workshop. I bounced it pretty horrendously. As I recall I used
lots of big words, which usually (and did in this case) meant that I
was bullshitting my way through something I didn't want to think
about. I didn't know how to journal, didn't know how to be Real, and
was afraid to look at all the work I'd have to do in order to get
there.

      I worked for a long time on father issues. I had a lot of
pent-up anger and pain to be let out. Connie was very patient with me
as I went through the various stages of hating my father, crying,
lying, and finally, breaking through. It's funny: in _Batman Forever_
there's a line where Jim Carrey says, "It's a breakthrough! And a
breakdown? Maybe!" It's meant to be funny, but I think that you can't
have one without the other. You need to break down, you need your
defenses to be utterly annihilated before you can have a breakthrough.
You can do it and stay defended, but you have to go back and do it
again later. Maybe you have to do it again anyway. Don't know.

      I've always had such a problem with anger, and this came up in
dealing with my father issues too. I learned at an early age that it
didn't do me any good, and did me a great deal of harm, to be angry
and express it. So I did what I could to squash it down. I had what
Connie called "frozen affect"; that is, I didn't show emotions on my
face. I could be feeling ecstasy or crushing humiliation and you
couldn't really tell it on my face. It's taken me a while to break
that down, and my face still isn't as expressive as it might be. It
took years to put the mask into place -- it's not surprising that it's
taking a while to break it back down.

      One of the things that I had to do was let myself be angry with
my father. I had hated him for a long time, but hatred is a cold, dark
emotion, not fiery like anger, and it doesn't cathart like anger. For
me, hatred is anger that can't express. So I was full of hate, but I
had trained myself not to let it come out as anger, and untraining
that was tough. I have an analogy to explain why.

      For a very long time, every time I would get out of Connie's
car, the door would shock me. Every time, without fail. Then, one day,
it stopped. I, however, did not stop jerking my hand back from the
door whenever I touched it. I kept jerking my hand away because it had
hurt me so many times in the past that jerking my hand back was a
reflex action, not something that I had to think about any more. Once
I noticed that it wasn't shocking me, I had to consciously train
myself to touch the door again without flinching. Even concentrating,
it took me several weeks before I could do it without thinking. If it
took that long to get over something that only had a few months
training, how long to get rid of years of work?

      A long time. The vestiges are still with me, though I've
transformed and healed a great deal of my pain. And with my father
issues, I had learned through hard lessons to keep my anger well
hidden, else he would hit me for being angry that he'd hit me. So I
hid it. And even now, when I've worked on it, when I get angry my
first reaction is to squash it down. My first emotional response to it
is fear, fear that someone will stop loving me because I'm angry. I'm
working with it, but it's a long uphill battle. My father was a harsh
teacher, but I learn my lessons well.

      Over the course of my work, I've learned to see my father in a
more balanced light. I still don't like the things he did, or the
things that he continues to do that are harmful and damaging, but I
can love him for the person he is. It took a very long time before I
could see him as a person, one with needs, one who is suffering and
trying to find a way out of it. . . just like me. When I was young I
swore that I would never be like him. But now I think that with a few
exceptions, I would be proud to be like my father. He's done the best
he could with what he had, and he shaped my life so that I could be
who I am today. I am eternally grateful for the opportunity to be who
I am today. The issues he gave me to work through have been the core
of my growth, and I would never have the sensitivity or compassion I
have today without those issues. It seems odd, I guess, to thank him
for the pain, but I do. I do.

      My relationship with Connie has been the pivotal part of my work
in Mentor. At different times she has been mother, teacher, mirror,
confessor, goddess, student, and soulmate for me. Put a different way,
she has always been who I needed her to be. Even when neither of us
understood what I needed from her, she was there. I admire her courage
and her clarity, and I truly hope that I can follow in her footsteps.
She believed in me when no one else did, not even myself, and that has
made such a difference in my life. She's not perfect; no one is. But
she's growing, and she's willing to grow. Her honesty and courage have
been a guiding light for me, and her love has always given me a
security I couldn't have worked without.

      My spiritual awakening came about in a serendipitous manner.
Connie, Judson and I were all working on the Honors Handbook one
summer, and she brought a book of poetry for Judson to see. It was
lying on the floor and I just happened to pick it up and thumb through
it. It was a collection of quotes from Sufi mystics. I read the first
one I turned to and it blew my head off. I kept turning the pages,
kept reading, kept having epiphanies as I finally saw the spiritual
plane. I finally saw the footprints of the Ox with my own eyes. I had
told Connie earlier that I wanted to work on the wisdom path, and she
told me that it was the hardest of all. I really don't know why I
persisted. Something called to me, something told me that this was the
way to go even though I had no idea what to expect. I have never truly
regretted that decision. I have thought that I couldn't make it; but
I've never regretted it.

      Rumi's poetry called to me. It set up a resonance in me that is
still moving me. It calls me to a higher union with something, calls
me to be more Real, to let go of my ego and be. I feel the longing
when I am clear. It's a yearning toward something I don't see clearly.
But I trust it. Rumi's poetry ties directly into the mass and what it
means to me. The transformations I witness every day at mass are the
same ones that Rumi wrote and sang about so many years ago. It gives
me a sense of connectedness with the past, I am guided by the
footprints of those who lovingly and laughingly trusted God to kill
them. During this Lent I am trying. I don't feel that I have a hope of
attaining what I'm striving for, but I'm trying.

      I feel like I'm searching for a needle in a haystack, and I've
never seen a needle, the haystack is the size of the Earth, and I'm
blind. I don't know what to do, or why; I only know that I must.
Longing compels me to act where no action is evident, and to sit still
when the thing I most want to do is move. Being open to this longing
is the hardest thing I've ever done, not because it's painful, but
because I am fighting for my life.

      Connie took me to mass to show me what it was like before I went
to Search. I didn't get much out of it at first, though I found the
symbolism and ritual fascinating. It supplied the beauty that I always
felt was missing in the Baptist services. It was formal, mysterious,
magical, and tranformative. The more I understood the psychology of
the mass, the more respect I had for the Church, though any respect I
gave to a religion was grudging at best in those days. When I
understood that I could use the mass as an anchor, as a mantra to help
me clear myself and transform, I was hooked. Here was a beautiful and
powerful way to grow! I was amazed and thankful.

      It didn't happen quite that quickly, of course. I still had my
Baptist strings to get out of the way. It wasn't all that hard (at
least the easy ones weren't) because I had already begun stripping
things out. But it was hard to relax in a church, because I was
reacting so strongly to my church and didn't feel comfortable with
religion of any kind. These days, now that I've understood that God
doesn't care if I believe or not, it becomes much easier to use the
ritual, use the structure in ways that are more conducive to growth
for me.

      Service and Ministry have become integral and important parts of
my life now, partly because of my experiences at church. I began
playing guitar with the Music Ministry on Easter of 1996, and since
then it's become more and more clear to me that the music is part of
the sacrament as well. When the congregation partakes of the bread and
wine, there is another symbol that is present, and that is the gift of
the music. The way our music group plays and sings it is clear that we
are pouring out our love. I feel very strongly that it should be -- we
aren't performing, as Frank once said, we are ministering, and it's an
important distinction. In a very real way, we are adding to the power,
the mystery, and the Beauty of the mass by playing and singing.

      For me, it means something different. I don't think that I have
ever gone to mass that it hasn't hurt on some level. Not being able to
join in communion hurts on several levels. One is simply that it's
something that almost everyone else is doing and I'm excluded. It
flies in the face of the community I've been working so hard to trust.
The entire mass is built around the idea that we -- all of us -- are
part of the heart of God, and as such we work, live, love, and play
together. But the unity breaks down when communion is being
administered. Because I am not part of the Church, I can't take it.

      The other level of not receiving communion is that I have built
the structure of the mass into a transformative and redemptive
structure. We recognize and own our faults, we are broken in a willing
and living sacrifice with Christ on the altar, and we are reborn and
redeemed in the receiving of communion. So it's easy to see why it
hurts when I can participate in everything but the rebirth. It's like
dying all over again every time I go to church. And that's what I'm
trying to do -- but the rebirth is a long time coming.

      I'm not complaining. I understand why I choose not to. I also
understand, on most levels, why I continue to go to mass. The
transformations are still important, and the pain helps me understand
myself. This sounds masochistic, but the fact is that I know the more
I hurt, the more open I'm being. It's not a matter of beating yourself
until you bleed, but being open to the pain that's already there. Not
only being open, but rejoicing and giving thanks, because that's how
it gets transformed. We often think that thanksgiving is an end
product of transformation, but that's not always true. Sometimes it's
the transforming catalyst. We need to be able to let go of ourselves
enough to give thanks before things can loosen up and transform.

**I confess to Almighty God
and to you, my brothers and sisters,
that I have sinned through my own fault
in my thoughts and in my words
in what I have done, and what I have failed to do**

      Crying at mass is very important to me. It's a level of openness
that's not usually available to me -- I don't have the luxury of
crying when I'm playing in front. I can't be as open to the pain when
I'm playing as I can when I'm kneeling in the congregation. It's a
sacrifice, but a worthwhile one -- the Ministry is important too.

      The penitential rite, this Lent, has gained special significance
for me. I am not, as I mentioned at the beginning, renting my garments
out of shame and remorse. That is not to say that I am not penitent --
I have repented, and paid for, my sins many times over. No, it's not
the actions I'm looking at now. It's the spirit. Where do my sins stem
from? What am I really confessing when I pray that prayer? What am I
asking for when

**I ask blessed Mary, ever-Virgin,
all the angels and saints,
and you, my brothers and sisters,
to pray for me to the Lord our God.**

I'm not praying to people in Heaven. I don't know whether they exist
and I don't care. It doesn't matter. I am asking the community that I
love and trust to help me deal with the fact that I'm human. Not
because it's something bad, but because it's a community effort --
this being human doesn't happen in a vacuum.

      When I confess, I am opening myself as deeply as I can to the
people around me. I am asking my *sangha*, "Be Real with me." When I
confess, I am taking the first step. I know I can't do it alone. So I
show my weaknesses, my vulnerabilities, to my friends and ask them to
help me in the process of perfection and purification. This Lent is a
time of purification, of isolation, of stripping away -- but it is
also a time of exhortation, a time of community, a time of sharing of
love. We can't have one without the other.

The purification rests in the ground of unconditionality. That's what
I place my trust in when I say,

**Lord, I am not worthy to receive you --
But only say the word and I shall be healed.**



