From: IN%"elw@eckhart.ml.org" 22-DEC-1998 04:23:28.51
To:   IN%"mki8372@tntech.edu"  "Mary Kelly Ivanov (MK)",
IN%"chood@tntech.edu"  "Dr. Connie Hood"
CC:
Subj: j; on the last 3.5 years of my life


this is going to take me a long time.  MK just asked me, a couple of days
ago, to talk about why i am who i am.  why i'm doing this growth stuff.
and there was another question- something about wasted time versus
missed opportunities.  asking what the difference is between the two, if
any.  :)

so, i guess basically the best way to write all of this down is to write a
long, drawn out summary of my life from about the middle of my senior year
in high school up to now.

connie has been griping at me for a couple of semesters now to use the
things i've learned about the way i deal with this same set of things to
try to help people.  connie, i'm learning.  :)


um. ok.  march '95.

i started dating teresa ramsey in this month.  things were just too
perfect with this... other than people's ages.  she was 14, i was barely
17.  what a pain in the ass.  i was getting ready to graduate, i
supposedly had my stuff together, and then this sweet little freshwoman
comes along and trips me up.  :)  i got really attached, really quickly.
and really deeply.  i see now that i have a very possessive and needy
streak way down deep... i want people, sometimes, to do things my way as a
means of validating me.  it makes me very bossy, sometimes, especially
when i'm hurting. i 'loved' her, but not for the right reasons, i think.
it was ok at the beginning.

that relationship with her lasted until sometime around the end of march
1997.  this was one of the most pivotal things in my life.  i didn't think
anyone else could ever love me so much.  i know that's not true, and that
it is delusional, but sometimes i slide back there and just ache.  it is
very depressing, really.

during that whole period of time, i wasn't doing a lot of things that i
could have been doing.  i skipped the eliot workshop when i was in the
202h class to go to teresa's cousin's wedding.  i could have showed up on
saturday and sunday, but i didn't.  if i'd done that, it probably would
have waked me up.  i at least would have had more of a clue about the
group of people that was here.  connie started poking at me around that
time, trying to get me to do things.  trying to get me to come to her
workshops.  trying to get me out of the house, with or without teresa, and
to the mindless movies.  trying to get me to come to campus and play with
people.

all of those things, and i said no.  what the hell was i thinking?  it
makes me want to cry.  i missed so much that i could have had.  shit, now
i *am* crying.  i missed out on a whole level of bonding that i could have
had with the people that are some of my closest and best friends now. why?
because i was afraid.  because i didn't know what people would think if i
did anything but conform to the mold that had been established for me to
fall into.  dating a preacher's kid was like being in a glass fishbowl,
all the time.  especially if it is someone you're dating that's like her.
everybody likes her.  seriously.  its really scary.  i know loads of
people in this town that have me coded in their heads as 'oh, he used to
date teresa ramsey.  you know, denton ramsey's daughter?  oh, i wonder
what happened?'  that doesnt' happen with all of the people that know us
both, or the ones that know me better.  i'm glad of that...

i skipped doing teh progoff weekend *twice*.  that's got to be some kind
of amazing record for mentor students.  (spring 96 and spring 97)
the second time connie specifically asked me to make teresa do it too.  i
couldn't get her to do things on campus with me.  she didn't want to do
it.  she was afraid that people i was friends with would not like her.  or
tha tshe would be out of place, being a 16-yr old hanging around with a
bunch of college kids.  i tried.  i wanted to go to the movies on saturday
and do the discussions.  specifically that.  she wouldn't.

spring of 97, she started working saturday nights, so i started coming to
the movies.  what did we watch.....  the first one i can remember going to
was _anna karenina_. i think we may have watched schindler's list that
spring too.  not sure. this was before we had broken up...

i'm not sure what was happening to me, at that time.  i was pretty
unstable, i think.  i was crying a lot.  she was having to just sit there
and watch... i couldn't let her hug me, o rtouch me, or anything.  it was
something like touching a burning building... you just DONT.  i remember
sitting in the car in the mcdonalds parking lot and just crying for about
30 or 40 minutes.

that was really weird for her.  she never cried.  i asked her mom... her
mom didn't remember her ever crying.  sure, she hurt sometimes, and you
could hear her voice get a little strained, but she never really cried.
i'm not really sure why.  maybe she was just bottled up and couldn't get
into it.  or maybe she was just a T from hell.  :)  i don't think so,
really.... she liked sappy movies and animals and things a little too much
to not be an F.  maybe it was just conditioning.


something that i've had pointed out to me is that i came to tech at a
reasonable perry level, and then promptly started regressing.  back
through three, to two, and then on my way to one :)  it is a lot easier to
pin those things down than it is to figure out where i am now.  :)


one of the things that was happening was that i was centering *all* of my
energy on that one relationship.  if something didn't help either me or
her, then i wasn't going to have anything to do with it.

i was letting authority be defined by those things that would keep me in
that relationship, and keep me happy.  in the context i was having to work
from to do that, not many of the things i'm doing now are very valid.
they "are", but only as expressions of 'jesus is lord' or whatever you
want to call quasi-fundamentalist christianity.

i got a lot less autonomous, for a while.  i *wanted* to do the things
that would get me the most approval from her.

so i was doing all this stuff, and it was ok except for one thing.
the motives were all completely wrong.  i wasn't doing this stuff for her
at all.  that would have been very generous.  but no.  i was doing all of
this stuff for me.  and only for me.  i hate having to admit how selfish
it all was.  it scares me that i can be that blind, and that delusional,
and that silly.

i had no idea what healthy is.  but i thought i did.  sort of, at least.
it was pretty fuzzy.

one of my lifeshocks, one of the things that could have caused me to do a
lot of work, was the fact that the girl i had dated before teresa, one of
her friends from elementary school, killed her mom when teresa and i had
been dating for about six months.  i tend not to say much about that.  it
wasn't my fault, really...  the other girl was a compulsive liar, had lots
of problems at home, lived with her grandparents.  after i stopped dating
her, she got into smoking pot in a big way and started hanging out with
some people that she would never have been around before.   i still feel a
little guilty there... i think, "what could i have done to help this
person?" every time i think about it.  if i'd done something differently,
would her mom still be alive?

that taught me a hell of a lot about compassion.  it keeps coming up- how
do i deal with this person (in my mind) who has done this horrible thing?
how do you love that person's life when they've taken it from someone
else?

uggggh.

when teresa and i stopped dating, i was in denial for ages.  i finally
told danyel in french class one day.  ken (hunter, the younger) had been
making jokes about teresa and i, mostly about us getting married someday.
i got tired of it, and finally told danyel that it was over.  i didn't
tell connie.  i was afraid, i think.  i didn't want to tell anybody
because i figured i could fix it and we'd get back together and everything
would be great.  didn't happen, you know?

connie found out when i fell apart in her office in henderson before class
one day.  i didn't know what the hell was going on... i felt like crap,
wanted to skip class, and didn't have a term paper topic yet that was
worth anything.  so i end up in the office ten minutes before class and
suddenly we have a 20-minute conference?  thank god for other people's
intuition.

so, i get plucked out of the air and tossed into this group of people that
connie has put together.  some of them know each other.  i don't know very
many of them at all.  i am afraid.  the ones i know best are the ones i've
been in class with the most, or people that i knew already.  at that
point, the ones i knew best were james, danyel, and anna.

i had talked to anna at a thursday evening earlier that semester.  it was
pretty weird...  anna knew teresa vaguely, and heard it through the
grapevine that we had broken up, and was worried about me.  it was kind of
a shocker to me that these people actually wanted to talk to me.... i just
kind of figured that htey were off in their own little worlds with their
own problems, and that the last thing that they needed was for me to be
there and talking to them.  not true, but i didn't know that then.


i got really blackly deeply depressed that summer.  i didn't know what to
do.  i didn't have anythign that was worth living my life for.  no
relationship equalled "no meaning".  i certainly didn't value myself very
much.  i could have killed myself.  i almost did that, a couple of years
before this.  that was about relationship stuff too.  i don't know if i
could have done it or not, but i made noises about it to my then-ex, and
she freaked, and then everybody else freaked.

this was much worse than anything i've ever lived through.  i'd wake up in
the morning, drag myself out of bed, and go to school.  i don't know how i
did that.  every second of every day *hurt*.  i didn't want to cry.  i
just wanted the world to burn up around me so i wouldn't have to look at
it.  nothing was beautiful.  nothing meant anything to me.  i didn't care.
i was morose and bitter all the time.  i felt inside like david foster
seems outside.  it sucks.

meaning is important.  i definitely learned that, from all of this.
i could talk about being depressed for a while, but i don't think you want
to hear it.  the things that can be said about hurting that way are
directly opposed to the way that i want to live my life.  basically, i'm
so scared of it that i don't even want to talk about it.

have you ever seriously hurt yourself?  like cutting yourself on a jagged
piece of metal, or having a stemmed glass break in your hands and slash
your palms?  now, imagine that same kind of pain, but make it fill your
entire brain.  compound that with a black cloud that keeps you from seeing
both the things that hurt you and the things that are beautiful, and
you've pretty much got a description of that summer.

it took the fall of my junior year to learn to laugh again.

last spring, i actually started reading some books.  i was working on
self-esteem things, and feeling better, and not quite so bleak anymore.
still not very honest, though.  :)  and still not very clear.

in late may/early june i wrote a heck of a lot of journals.  late may was
the LT weekend; that set off a lot of things that i started working on.

all of last summer and this fall was basically an exercise in autonomy.  i
moved out of my parents house;  that helped as much as anything.  i put
myself in an environment where i was around other people a lot more often.
and since i wanted to do t higns at school, i saw my parents a lot less.
not like they ever saw me before.... i keep weird hours anyway.  :)

early this fall i hit autonomy hard.  i came to a point where i was really
unhappy with the way my life was.  i was mad at heather, specifically. :)
she was being a bitch, and i wasn't taking it very well.  i was angry
enough that i was tempted to tell everyone to get lost and just leave me
alone for a while.  which brought me to a choice and something new:  why
am i doing all of this stuff?  for who?

one of the things that i realized was that i can choose to leave the
things that i'm doing at any point.  i have ultimate choice, here.
i'm not in mentor for connie;  i'm in mentor for what it does for me.  and
because of what it does for me, i can help people.

the issue of choice is important.  if there's something i want to do, then
i'm going to go do it if it is feasible.  if i want to know 50 more things
about X topic, the only thing keeping me from knowing them is getting the
book and reading it.  that hasn't been a problem, lately.  intuition says,
"more data, please" and i have to feed it.  i have a drive to know and to
understand as much as i can possibly stand.  it matters that i do things
that way.... the more i expose myself to new things, the more powerfully
my intuition can put them all together and build bigger pictures.
besides, i get incredibly high on intuitive spikes.  :)  even teh rational
ones do it, but the emotional ones are the juiciest.  :)

all of the things that i want take choice.  and autonomy.

i like being around people more than i ever have.  i'm not afraid of
them... sometimes i get the feeling that they are probably afraid of me,
though.  :)  its kind of weird when one of the people that i consider
peers and equals comes up and asks me what my opinion of something is.
especially when i'm not sure that i really know what to tell them.  it
gives me the willies to think that this person, this other human being, is
asking me to help them and expecting that i'll be able to do it.

(can you tell i got out of typing and played on the web for a while? i was
feeling a wee bit depressed.  too much typing, i guess, about thigns that
used to hurt a lot more than they are now.... )

[it is kind of neat to notice that these things don't hurt me as much now.
:)  i still don't plan to advertise all of my stuff to the world, mostly
because it isn't appropriate to just tell people everything.  i could and
would if i needed to do it.  defensive, aren't i?  i don't want people to
think that i won't share something just because it hurts a little bit. ]

the truth has been an important thing for me to look at, this fall.
so has love.  and so has compassion.

i look at those three things, and they make so much sense.  they're really
tightly interconnected.  or, at least, they are in the person that i
really do want to be. i'm getting closer to that...  it is really hard to
roll over into accepting and LOVING who i am... it is so much easier to
just say "this isn't good enough yet" and keep working.  i haven't decided
that i'm through with this person that i am, yet, and i don't know that i
ever WILL get to that point.  it seems a little bit unlikely.  :)
i think one of the things that happens, at some point, is that you don't
have any choice in the matter anymore.  you don't want it, then.  i don't
know.  i'm not there yet, i don't think.

what's the axiom... you stop doing the work and the work keeps on doing
you?  something like that.

i don't think i answered your question, about how i got to be who i am.
i don't think i have a clue, quite frankly.  :)

if i look at who i am now, in comparison to who i was when i was a
freshman, i just want to start laughing.  i'm so different.  i don't
really even recognize that i was that person, anymore... it seems so
unlike me.  the really big problems that i have are still the same, but
the way they're expressed is a little bit different.

i wouldn't give up who i am now for anything in the world.  this is so
much better than who i was.  i'm not finished yet, though, either.  i'll
end up giving up who i am now... and i'll get something different.  :)

is all of what i'm saying making sense?  i can't see your reaction as
you're reading, so i'm pretty clueless about it.

oh.  the other question.  the difference between wasted time and missed
opportunities.  :)  <singsong>i-have-the-answer!</singsong>

there are no missed opportunities.  and there is no wasted time.

i mean it.  i bet you're not taking that seriously, are you?  most people
don't seem to be able to stomach it...  what i usually get back from
people is "i didn't like it then" or something like that.  my internal
response is something like 'tough shit.  you like who you are now, don't
you?  if you don't, then why on earth are you not doing something about
it?'  that sounds kind of harsh.  maybe i shouldn't be so mean to people
about it.  i'm not saying it to them, but that really isn't a very good
excuse for my misbehavior....  but it really matters that all of the bad
things that happen have happened.  they make us who we are.


MK, if you actually read all of this, then i'm pretty impressed.  thank
you.  :)  i know connie will read it... to distract herself from
planning sabrina's wedding, if nothing else... *grin*

love ya'll,
--elijah

[oh, hades.  i forgot to say anything about my brother being in the
hospital last fall.  he almost died.  that's an important thing to put
with all of this.  that was the first taste i got of dealing with extreme
pain from anything that even came close to looking like a centered
place.... it was just plain weird.  :)  i won't take up more space here,
but i wanted to tag it so that i can look back at this later and remember
what it was that i almost forgot.  :) ]

(noticing that i said almost nothing about this fall.  that's going to
take even more time.  and that's what i don't have, right now.  besides,
that wouldn't fall very well under the context or the pretense of
answering MK's questions.  :)  i needed a *reason* to write this stuff
down.  i wouldn't have done it otherwise, i think. )

bye for now....  :)




