From:	IN%"mme3241@tntech.edu"  "Mary Eller - Honors 101-01"  3-MAR-2000 19:54:37.19
To:	IN%"chood@tntech.edu"  "chood"
CC:	
Subj:	is this cynical?

I haven't written because i've been too confused to write.  i just don't
understand?  is there a god?  did he get bored so he made us?  why are we
here? why the hell do we get out of bed every morning?  does god just want
someone to love him?  is he like
humans?  is a controlling manipulating bastard just like we are?  did he
send jesus to die so that he could say you have to love me now?  is he
threatening us with hell?  and promising something that is not there?  how
do i know what is true?  how can humans love?  do humans love only for
their own benefit?  does god do it too?  if we love for our own benefit
then do we only love ourselves?  i think humans are incapable of love?  we
crave others only to provide us with pity or attention or something of the
sort?  then if they aren't enough then we stab them in the back after
promising them heaven?  we send them to hell when we're tired of playing
with them?  we make promises that we will never be able to keep.  we are
honest without telling the truth?  we can't trust each other?  we
can't trust ourselves?  our words are meaningless. our lives are
too?  if there is no god then finally there is peace when we die.  if
there is a god there is the same uncertainty with death as there is with
life.  is god just watching us now for amusement?  got tired of getting
his hands dirty so he's letting the devil play now?  sits up there and
tells us that we have to love him or he'll punish us?  sounds too familiar
to me.  love me and i'll do this and this and this for you. if you don't
make me happy though you'll be sorry.  oops sorry you're not perfect you're
going to have to be tortured.  is that what god does too?  sends us to
hell if we don't love him the right way?  if we don't screw with him then
we're going to hell?  i'd rather just have peace.  but is there any?  if
knowledge caused death, then is this what living is?  not knowing
anything?  i'd rather be dead.  



