                 Christianity:  A Brief History and Overview

A Topical Overview:

Christ-- from Greek word christos, anointed one. A historical figure
whose teachings have greatly influenced the development of Western
Civilization and a major world religion. The life, death, and reported
resurrection of Christ are held by many to be the fulfillment of the
Mosaic Law and the redemption of mankind.

Christianity-- Webster: the religion derived from Jesus Christ, based
on the Bible as sacred scripture, and professed by Christians. This
religion encompasses a vast and bodied culture which has been at the
root of Western Civilization for nearly 1500 years. Followers of
Christ, Christians, are commonly viewed as those who accept the deity
of Christ and the sacredness of his teachings.

Bible-- from Greek biblos papyrus, book. The Bible is the sacred
collection of writings for Christians. These writings include the Old
and New Testaments. The Old Testament gives the history of the Jews
through Christ. The New Testament, divided into the Gospels and the
Epistles, provides accounts of Christ and his followers after his
death and the letters of Saul of Tarsus, John, Peter, and James.

From its roots in Jerusalem and the 12 Apostles, Christianity has
spread throughout the world. Today, there are estimated to be over 1
billion Christians worldwide, the majority found in Europe and North
and South America. Substantial minorities are also seen in Asia and
Africa. Christianity is a diverse religion which has assimilated many
cultures and beliefs. In examining Christianity, we find elements of
the Greek philosophers, pagan holidays, gnosticism, Judaism, etc.

History:

In examining the history of Christianity, I have divided up the 2000
year period into 3 stages: Beginnings, Medieval, and Modern.

Beginnings:

The beginnings of the church encompass the period between the birth of
Christ (approximately 5 B.C.E.) to the fall of the Roman Empire in the
sixth century C.E.. During this time, Christianity grew from Christ
and his circle of twelve disciples to become the official religion of
the Roman Empire. Early Christians dealt with the threat of pagan
religions, gnostics, persecution by Jews and the Roman government, and
internal divisions. During this time, the Christians also spread their
faith, defined what it meant to be a Christian, and began the process
of formulating a culture.


Important people and events included:

Jesus-- source of Christianity and messiah to the Jewish people who is
taught by Christians as having redeemed the world through his perfect
life, death and resurrection.. Important teachings include the Golden
Rule, Sermon on the Mount, the Eucharist, and parables. First account
of his life and teachings thought to have been written in 70 C.E.

Paul of Tarsus-- well-educated Jewish convert and Roman citizen who
first brought the message of the Gospel to the Gentiles, those people
who were not of the Jewish tradition. His mission began spreading the
Christian faith throughout the Roman Empire. Paul is credited by Carol
Armstrong has having helped to make Christ the mediator between God
and man and as largely the creator of the Christian faith which we now
see today.

Alexandria-- city in Egypt with a large Gnostic (from Greek word
gnosis, hidden knowledge) tradition. In this place, the Christians
Clement and Origin and the pagans Plotinus and Mani. Clement and
Origin established the first known school of catechumens and helped to
link gnosticism with Christian beliefs (Christ as divine reason).
Plotinus and Mani, though not Christian, greatly influenced Christian
doctrine by merging gnostic traditions with Greek philosophy. Plotinus
was especially influential in applying Greek philosophy to the gnostic
experience and his usage of the Great Chain of Being.

The Council of Nicea-- Council which established the Nicene Creed as a
basis of Christian doctrine in 325. The creed settled, in Athanasius's
favor, a dispute between Athanasius and Arius on whether or not Christ
was divine in his human nature. This creed established the doctrine of
the Trinity and the homoousion (Greek word meaning "from the same
stuff") nature of God.

Saint Augustine-- Fourth century convert to Christianity who forged
the ideas Plato into Christianity. Wrote the Confessions and The City
of God. It is from Augustine, according to Armstrong, who introduced
the concept of Original Sin, defined the nature of the Trinity, and
helped to establish four main ways of interpreting scripture (see Will
Schrader's lecture notes).

Medieval Period:

The time I have labeled as the medieval period occurs from the demise
of the Roman Empire around 500 C.E. until the Renaissance and
Reformation which occur in the 1500's. This period was marked by an
age where Christianity had to transition itself from the fall of Rome
into the hands of barbarians, the invasion of the Eastern church by
the Persians and Muslims, the Crusades by the west to recapture
Jerusalem, the split of the East and West churches, and the Plague. We
also see Europe become settled into a Christian culture while the
Roman Church attains great political power. Some important people and
events during this time were:

Islam-- A religion founded by the prophet Mohammed in the 7th century,
Islam and its God Allah swept the Arabic world. The Islamic empires
which resulted in the coming centuries threatened Christianity by
spreading through Jerusalem and Eastern Europe. The rapid expansion of
the Muslim faith resulted in Christianity beginning Crusades to expel
the infidels in 1096.

The Crusades-- In the beginning of the emergence of Europe from the
chaos and turmoil of the Dark Ages, a united Northern Europe attempted
to win Jerusalem back from the Muslims. In these Crusades, Northern
Europe was introduced to the Greek philosophers, the Islamic concept
of Falsafah, medicine, and other ideas which would later significantly
influence the birth of the Renaissance.

The Holy Roman Empire-- An Empire of Western and Northern Europe, the
Holy Roman Empire began in 800 with the crowning of Charlemagne as
emperor and lasted through the 19th century. The Holy Roman Empire was
a strong-hold of Christianity through the Dark Ages and a place from
which Christianity would spread into Asia and North Africa.

Thomas Aquinas-- the most influential philosopher of the medieval
period, St. Aquinas attempted a synthesis of Greek philosophy and
Augustine. Summa Theologica is his most famous work which includes
Aquinas' famous five-fold proof of the existence of God and also
attempts to integrate Falsafah with Augustine.

The Inquisition-- A movement begun after the Council of Toulouse of
1229, the Inquisition by the Roman Church attempted to dispel heresy
from within the Roman Empire. The Inquisition had power to assume
suspected individuals guilty until proven innocent, used torture on
suspected heretics to reveal heresies, and executed those who went
against church doctrine. Galileo and Copernicus are well-known
examples.

Mysticism-- movement which sought an internal harmony with God. Key
figures include Francis of Assisi, Meister Eckhart, Susso, and Teresa
of Avila (Gary will speak more about mystics in this age ).

Modern:

During the 16th through 20th centuries, we see many changes occur in
Christianity. During this time, we see Martin Luther and John Calvin
begin revolts against the Roman Catholic Church to return to a more
"Christ-focused" religion, the decline of the Roman Catholic Church in
Western Europe, and the development of scientific age with Newton,
Darwin, Einstein, etc. During this time, we see the Church split into
factions and lose its grasp on the interpretation of history and man's
place in the cosmos. The colonization of the New World and advances in
transportation and communication also allow for the expansion of
Christianity to new continents while simultaneously being exposed to
new thoughts and ideas. Technology, the spread of democratic
philosophy, and diversified cultures also allow for us to see dramatic
changes in the way the West views the world. Some important events and
movements of this age include:

Martin Luther-- A German monk who became highly dissatisfied by the
corruption and politics of the Catholic Church, Martin Luther began
the Reformation in 1517. Luther's inner struggle led to the creation
of a new church founded on the principles of being saved by Christ
through Grace by Faith. Luther was heavily influenced by Augustine.

John Calvin-- More radical than Luther, Calvin was a was 16th century
church reformer who, according to Armstrong, brought the ideas of the
Renaissance into Christianity. Calvinism inspired the Puritan
revolution in England. Calvinism is best known for its doctrines of
free will and predestination.

Counter-Reformation-- Movement in the Roman Catholic church which
attempted to reform the Catholic Church with new discoveries and
attitudes in the surrounding world while working within the framework
of Catholicism.

Enlightenment-- Period of world history which paralleled the
industrialization and the rise of science. Among the worlds great
thinkers, men such as Kant, Darwin, Newton, and Descartes began the
process of bringing mankind toward rational contexts with history and
the world. Enlightenment brought forth the myth of progression and the
philosophy of humanism. Evolution and physics began to also challenge
the ancient contexts which Christianity had held toward man's proper
place in the universe and the framework of the universe which mankind
was living within.

Religious Pluralism-- With the rise of colonialism and, later, the
spread of democracy, exposure to new cultures and religions, in
parallel with increased religious tolerance, allowed for the spread of
world religions. With exposure to the world's many differing
interpretations and cultures, Christianity found new places for
missions and also new challenges and questions about its viability and
authority in proclaiming Christ the savior of the world.

Sources:

The New Encyclopedia Britannica:  1997. "Christianity"- vol. 16, pp. 251-
263

Armstrong, Karen.  A History of God. Ballantine Books: New York., 1993.

Borchert, Bruno.  Mysticism.  Samuel Weiser, Inc.:  York Beach, Maine,1994.

Latourette, Kenneth Scott.  A History of Christianity.   Harper & Brothers:
New York, 1953.

Smith, Huston.  The World's Relgions.  Harpers:  San Francisco, 1991.
