
4) Expectations of myself and Cor

(P.S.)
I prefer that I carry out my commitments and that I become a more loving, open
human being.  I would like to become more clear and less ego driven because I
see again that I must ultimately forge my own path (that is, autonomy and
interdependence are important things to develop and be aware of) and that until
I work on these areas further growth will be hindered.  I would like to develop
a group of people who can be real in Madison.  I see cor as a place where I can
learn and also share who I am and also help aid in others growth.  I would
prefer that Cor is a group of people who are accepting, committed to growth,
honesty, and being real.  I prefer that people call me on places where I am not
honest either with myself or others, and where I am making judgement statements
or placing demands and accusations on myself or others.  I also prefer that
people commit to the work and focus on being who they are without masks and the
dramas because then I can truly see them.  I would like to get e-mail from each
person on a semi-regular / frequent basis of at least every other week so I can
be aware of where they are and what is important to them.

(/P.S.)

 (M.O.)
 I expect others to call me when I am not being honest or am being hurtful
 I expect that I will hurt
 I expect the group to bond and be committed to the Work and Cor
 I expect us to be respectful of each other
 
(/M.O.)
(A.T)
       I expect that I am going to annoy and disagree with some members of cor
       I expect that I will learn a lot from cor. 
       I expect thta we will all learn a lot, but I have no idea what
direction it will take.
(/A.T.)
(A.B.)
cor:
that each member make every effort to attend each meeting
that everyone be aware of the effects of what they say (be empathic)
that we are each willing to work to move towards our axioms and ideals
that we are open to each other's ideas with as little judgment as possible
(/A.B.)
(J.R.)
** My expectations of Cor are that everyone will be committed, that everyone
will grow, that everyone will listen to each other, that we'll all find a place
to be open and honest, that we will bond as a group.  I see such potential in
this group, and I don't think anyone else does except for Connie.  It's pretty
awesome, and I'm pulling for it.  I expect myself to have the discipline to
journal and share the journals, and to catch myself when I'm putting me on a
pedestal and knock it down.  I expect others to help me with my work, and I
expect myself to help them.  I expect us to work together as a group to help
each other grow.
(/J.R.)
(L.B.)
Goals, personal:
Find out what being real truly is. 
Learn how to commit fully.
Integrate my body into growth; I can do the mental, emotional, and spiritual
fairly well.  Body is still lagging far behind.
Listen more completely, without judgements, opinions, filters getting in the
way.
Autonomy of values, of action.
(/L.B.)

