2) Conventions of the work

(P.S.)
* trust in the process
* pain
* write dump / emotional journals without trying to process the statements, and later go back and look at them rationally and see what is true and what isn't
* working in groups (whether focus groups or totem poles or whatever)
* alcohol and drug abuse are hindrances to growth
* not bragging about or talking about mentor to other people
(/P.S.)

(M.O.)
2) Conventions of the work

Dump journals are by definition irrational. They are not attacks on
anyone, but an expression of intense emotion. Rational statements
should be made in a separate work.

Journaling is a neccessity. Journals do not have to be sent out to
others but it helps both myself and others.

Don't advertise mentor. It creates conflict for Connie and the rest of
Cor. It also may have an adverse affect on someone's self esteem.

We are our own best resources, dont be afraid to ask other people
questions, especially where they are experts.

Journals should be as honest as I can possibly make them. I am not
here to impress anyone or make myself feel good, but instead to
accomplish a set of goals.

You are always free to walk away from any question or event. You may
be asked for reasons for walking away

During group meetings I will be mindful of my desire to talk and
determine if my comment contibutes to the current focus of the meeting
or if it is for personal gratification.  If it is the latter I will
note it and keep my silence. If what I have to say is interesting but
not pertinent or my question will lead to a long digression I will
write it down and save it for an appropriate time.

Be on time for all meetings

Do not eat during the meetings as food and bathroom breaks interrupt
the entire group and prevent depth work.

Do not have sub conversations during group meetings. If this is a
necessity, do it out of the room or on paper.

Bring pen and paper to all meetings. This is work, not play time.

Sarcasm, especially during depth work, clouds understanding and is
counter productive
(/M.O)

(H.B.)
be real: about yourself and where you are coming from
think before you act (later this works into a felt-sense thing where thought
   and action and feeling all become one thing, but you have to work to
   get there)
really look at your defenses
remember that you affect others and keep that in mind in all that you do
name and tag the irrational (and thereby put it in a safe place) and then purge
   it and be honest about the irrational
develop your rational so it can be a helpful tool and not a destructive tool
work towards balance
learn to embrace process and be conscious of your processes
most of all, be conscious
(/H.B.)

(A.B)
that we try to live the axioms as well as we can
using journalling to sort out issues, feelings, etc.
label dump journals as such
making an effort not to judge journals (or people in general)
(/A.B.)

