3

(C.B)
Some of my core beliefs:

I am committed to helping the world.

I am committed to helping others grow.  My primary reason for being a member of
this group is not personal growth, but to assist the development of others
through shared experiences.

I trust all of you implicitly and without question or regard to maturity level.
I trust and love anyone needing this group regardless of intellectual level,
personal, religious, sexual, or any other views, beliefs, or practices.

I believe in growth along many axises: spiritual, developmental, social,
personal, rational, religious, and many others.  These axises interact with one
another.  One may not be neglected without detriment to the others.

I am committed to "radical" honesty and being open.

I am committed to my own personal growth and the realization that through
helping others I develop skills necessary for my continued growth.

I am committed to developing a deeper sense of unconditional love and
compassion.

I am committed to keeping an open mind, and realizing that what I know now is
not absolute and changeless.  "Truth is found in life and not merely in
conceptual knowledge."

I am committed to working with Connie and this group; the honest and open
discussions related to developmental, personal, rational, educational, growth,
and life issues.

I believe that in sharing our values, our thoughts, and our emotions: the good
of each and the bad of each, that we can grow in boundless directions.  I am
committed to this sharing; I hope you can be too.


(/C.B.)
(H.B.)
 3) Commitments and goals in relation to myself and Cor

 
commit to openess and non-judgement (or a don't know place) before you make up
       your mind/choose (if you do)
work towards helping clear yourself trusting others to serve as mirrors for you
commit to being a clear mirror for others
name when you're not being clear and give a frame of reference

(/H.B.)
(D.B.)
To be at meetings every week and to be journalling and working through those
processes.  To be sharing at least some stuff with the group, it doesn't have
to be your whole head, but things that you are working on.  A committment to be
honest and open with empathy.  To try to listen to what other people are really
saying to you and about you.

Those who are out of town don't have to be at meetings and such, but working on
doing the other parts of this work.
 (/D.B.)
(J.R.)
** This one's tougher, and I think I'd rather do another journal on my
commitments.  I can say briefly, though, that my major commitment is to act as
though every person in Cor is my equal.  To that end I commit to journaling and
sending my journals to the group.  I commit to helping others when my expertise
is useful and shutting up when I don't have anything to offer.  I commit to
talking when it is to the point and not to make myself look good.  I commit to
depedestalizing me.  I commit to accepting others as they are, and as they
present themselves; I commit to believing in every person; I commit to loving
every person.
(/J.R.)

(M.W.)
 
committment to cor:  i committ to being an unconditional friend to every
memeber of cor.  i am not only doing cor for me but for the others.  i realized
this morning that is why i go to mass, not only for the structure but because i
feel my presence is helping others.  i committ to attending all the meetings.
i committ to doing all the homework.  i committ to examining all my fear and
paranoia i have about being excluded with in cor.  i committ to giving the
meeting my full undivided attention and not bouncing.

committment to my self:  i committ to be honest in every`action of my life.  i
committ to an r'ship with mark.  i committ to standing up for myself.  i
committ to action thru the fear when i am intimidated.  i committ to practicing
my beliefs.  i committ to letting the emotions i am feeling show without
hurting others.  i committ to loving my self.

path i am on:  i am on my path looking for truth, honest, and Love of all.

(/M.W.)


