John’s Contextual Development of Autonomy in Mentor

The CDAM model combines the basic ontological divisions of the Perry Scale with shifts in personal context.  This model provides its own skill development and compliments the other Development exercises in Mentor.  When combined with the other exercises it has a tendency to accelerate personal development through the Perry scale.

In each ontological grouping of Perry stages, students pass through three cumulative contexts:  Individual, Group, and Leader.  Each stage offers practical experience in skills taught by mentor.

This model is applicable if you are doing the Work as it is laid out in the Mentor program.  Arguably the Perry stages apply to everyone, even if they do not progress very far in them.  This model does not apply to everyone.  Students may follow this model or not in their personal development.  This is merely how Mentor has been designed to help foster personal development and autonomy.

Context					Practical Experience Offered
Individual				Self-Reflectiveness
Group					Communication/Collaboration, Recognition and Appreciation of Differences.
Leader					Teaching and Leadership.

As individuals progress from one context to the next they can still operate in the immediately previous contexts, until the next ontological shift in Perry.  At which point they will progress through the contextual shifts again with increased autonomy.

Each contextual shift requires that previous knowledge be re-learned from a different perspective.  Students understanding of the critical thinking and other skills are improved as the student integrates the two positions—in addition to each context’s intrinsic practical experience.

Exercises help contextual shifts
Contextual shifts help ontological shifts.
Ontological shifts help personal development.
Personal development helps on wisdom path and beyond.

Autonomyེ


Dualism
Relativism
Commitment
Individual
J1A
J2A
J3A
Group
J1B
J2B
J3B
Leader
J1C
J2C
J3C




Conjecture:  Other advanced contexts and forms of autonomy exist beyond 3C

Stages 

Students pass through the three contexts in cycles.  If students do not regress ontologically during this process, they will pass through them three times in this model.  If they do regress, they may pass through them many more times.

J1  Contextual shifts during Dualism.
During this ontological division, mentor students gain practice doing the Work.  Their practice doing the work at this level, even though non-autonomous, builds skills and reasoning ability that will help carry them through the later ontological shift out of Relativism, J2

J1A->J1B Individual to Group Dualism.
Adding the student to a non-homogenous group illustrates non authority approved modes of thinking and pushes students into Perry 3

J1B->J1C Group Dualism to Leader Dualism.
As a leader of a non-homogenous group, the student will typically be forced to reconcile the differences between the group members, both externally within the group, and internally within the student herself.  This will typically force the student to legitimize multiplicity internally, making the ontological shift to Perry 4.

J2 Contextual Shifts during Multiplicity.
Realizing (having been one previously), that authority does not have all the answers leads to a re-examiniation of all the students previous data points.  In multiplicity (uncertainty) new questions must be answered about “the facts.”  Particularly:  Why?

J2A  Heavy Readers.
Heavy Readers and Journalers may hit Perry 5 before going though the following contextual shifts.

J2A -> J2B.  Multiplicity Inundated.
Bringing back the group and its many perspectives, as well as continuing the exercises (especially in values and critical thinking) pushes the student from Perry 4a to Perry 5

J2B -> J2C  Super Game Players
By this point, students have figured out the rules of the game, and if they aren’t Perry 5 yet, they must still be playing.  If they are still playing then they see that the next rule is to become an Authority.  As they become an authority, they realize that they don’t have the rules anymore than their authorities have the rules.  No more rules pushes transition to Perry 5.


J2 -> J3
Students may regress (as in Perry 5) to J1 Duality.  Which is more comfortable.  Or they may get stuck in P5 until they’ve stumbled into something worth committing to.  If they can keep working on the journaling and mentor exercises, they will progress through Perry 5 more quickly.  Usually it progresses until Perry 5 becomes unbearable and it is realized that commitment is the only way out.

J3A-> J3B
Working with group pushes re-evaluation of commitments and solidifies Perry 6 into Perry 7 and beyond.

J3B -> J3C
Leading groups with apparently contradictory Perry 6+ commitments pushes student to Perry 9.


Notes on skipping stages:

You cannot skip the Individual Context in any of the ontological divisions.  Doing things at the individual is one of the fundamental elements of Autonomy.

The group and leader contexts can be skipped, but it may delay the shift to the next ontological stage.

Frequently, over committed, or over zealous mentor students will start in multiple contexts within an ontological division concurrently.  For example, after the ontological shift to relativism students may start in the revisited individual, group, and leader contexts all at once.   It is not truly skipping a context.

Students can hit Perry 5 at almost any point in the model.  In fact, they are increasingly likely to hit Perry 5 after reaching J2A.  Some honors students are very precocious.  If they do, they skip straight to the limbo between J2 and J3 and will either regress, or have to integrate enough autonomy to move on without assistance from the model.  In general, if a student hits Multiplicty without working through the ontological shift to J2a, they will not have developed the skills necessary to push them through multiplicity expediently.  If they do not regress, they will be stuck in multiplicity a long time.  (THIS IS WHY OTHER MENTOR STUDENTS SHOULDN’T TRY TO BREAK EACH OTHER BEFORE THEY’VE DONE THE WORK)
