\begin{center}
The Essence of Om
\end{center}

When many of us think of meditation, we picture an old wise man sitting in lotus position with his hands 
raised to shoulder level and chanting "Ommm…." What does this "Om" mean? The Om is part of a classic 
Buddhist mantra, or prayer, "Om Mani Padme Hum." It was chanted by the bodhisattva of compassion, 
Avalokiteshvara. The Dalai Lama is said to be the incarnation of Avalokiteshvara so his devotees hold 
the mantra in high regard. 

The translation of the mantra is thought to have several meanings. One interpretation is that “Om” 
is a sacred syllable found in many mantras (this will be explained further later), “Mani Padme” 
means “Jewel in the Lotus” or is an epithet applied to Avalokiteshvara. “Hum” is an exclamation 
found frequently in mantras and is akin to the O in “O Lord…” Om Mani Padme Hum can also be seen as 
six separate syllables representing the six realms of existence: Meditations, Patience, Discipline, 
Wisdom, Patience, Generosity, and Diligence respectively.  

Now that we have the origins of Om down, we are one step closer to understanding what it is. \emph{Siddartha} 
by Herman Hesse, is about a man who shares the same first name with Siddhartha Gautama, the historic Buddha most 
commonly referred to. It follows his adventures from beginning until the very end, when he reaches enlightenment.
In one chapter, Siddartha becomes a ferryman for a local town, shuttling people of all ages and castes across the 
river.His only son had run away to a nearby town, and it took everything he could not to run after him. One day, 
he gave in to temptation and stepped off his boat intending to go searching for him when he noticed that the river 
sounded almost as if it was laughing. He bent down along the bank of the river to listen more closely when he 
caught a glimpse of his reflection. The ripples cascaded across the reflection and he noticed that the reflection 
now made his face look more like his son's. A few moments later it turned into his father's face, a Brahman, and 
he was reminded of how his father had to make the same decision to give up his only son when Siddhartha wanted 
to take up asceticism.
"Had not his father suffered the same sorrow over him that he was now suffering over his son? Had not 
his father died long ago, alone, without ever seeing his son again? did not he, too have to expet that 
same destiny? Was it not a comedy, a strange and stupid thing, this repetition, this running around in 
a disastrous circle?"
With this epiphany, Siddhartha jumped back into the boat and rowed back to the hut of a fellow feryman, Vasudeva. 
He wanted to tell him about everything that he had learned."Do you hear?" Vasudeva asked, "Listen harder!"
"He had often hear all this before, these many voices in the river, but today it sounded new. By this 
time he could no longer distinguish the many voices, could not tell the gleeful ones from the weeping ones, 
the children's voices from teh grown men's; they all belonged together, the lament of longing and the 
knowing man's laughter, the cry of anger and the moans of the dying; it was all one, it was all interwoven and knotted 
together, interconected in a thousand ways. And all of this together, all the voices, all teh goals, all 
the longing, all the suffering, all the pleasure, all the good and evil, all of this together was the world. 
All of this together was the river of events, the music of life. ...then the great song of a tousand voices 
consisted of a single word, which was \emph{om}, the absolute."

That is one way of defining what Om is.Also, think of Tibetan prayer, or singing, bowls. They look very similar to a mortar 
and pestle, but what you do is hold the bowl near the base and strike it with the small stick that comes with it. Then, as 
the low hum reverberates, you glide the stick along the rim of the bowl, amplifying the low hum. This resembles the Om, the 
thousand voices all singing as one. It helps you to focus and clear your mind of everything else.

Hopefully, this has helped you to better understand what Om truly is. No longer will we see it as a gimmick or a novelty 
that we hum to signify we are meditating. It now presents us with a deeper meaning that bears the entirety of the worlds voice.