Meditation Quotes So Far (Spoonman)

Page 400 of The New Dictionary of Thoughts

One of the rarest of all acquirements is the faculty of profitable meditation. Most human beings, when they fancy they are meditating, are, in fact, doing nothing at all, and thinking of nothing. – Boyd

Meditation is the nurse of thought, and thought the food for meditation. – C. Simmons

It is easier to go six miles to hear a sermon, than to spend one quarter of an hour in meditating on it when I come home. – Philip Henry

It is not the number of books you read, nor the variety of sermons you hear, nor the amount of religious conversation in which mix, but it is the frequency and earnestness with which you meditate on these things till the truth in them becomes your own and part of your being, that ensures your growth. -F.W. Robertson

Page 19 of

The inner process works within the mind at the same time that it functions as a separate process and reaches beyond the mind into our actions.

A person can see his own face only by the indirect process of mirroring. The realization of this carried my riddle one step further, indicating that the next task was to devise a mirroring procedure. But it could not be a mirror that would reflect a static picture. It would have to reflect the movement of the human psyche to itself.

Page 19

The experience of our mediation is a similar kind of journey; it's the journey into ourselves through every aspect of our experience. There are ups and downs, highs and lows, times when it's pleasant and times of pain. There is nothing at all that is outside of our practice because our practice is to explore the totality of who we are.

Meditation practice is neither holding on nor avoiding; it is a settling back into the moment, opening to what is there. And this balance of mind, where there's no preference, no attachment, no clinging or condemning, but just being present for whatever arises, makes possible a connection with a deep rhythm.

"What is this true meditation? It is to make everything: coughing, swallowing, waving the arms, motion, stillness, words, action, the evil and the good, prosperity and shame, gain and loss, right and wrong, into one single koan" – Hakuin

"What's encouraging about meditation is that even if we shut down, we can no longer shut down in ignorance. We see very clearly that we're closing off. That in itself begins to illuminate the darkness of ignorance." – Pema Chodron

Meditation is the dissolution of thoughts in Eternal awareness or Pure consciousness without objectification, knowing without thinking, merging finitude in infinity. –Voltaire

No agenda, serious intent – Christian de Quincey

Half an hour's meditation is essential except when you are very busy. Then a full hour is needed. – Francis de Sales 

Meditation practice isn't about trying to throw ourselves away or become something better. It's about befriending who we are already. – Pema Chodron

We are sick with fascination for the useful tools of names and numbers, of symbols, signs, conceptions and ideas. Meditation is therefore the art of suspending verbal and symbolic thinking for a time, somewhat as a courteous audience will stop talking when a concert is about to begin. –Alan Watts

On meditation:  Its all fun and games until someone loses an I.

Meditation is not what you think

In meditation, you are not supposed to "concentrate" on the things that arise in the mind. Rather, you are supposed to "bear witness" to the things that arise in the mind. –Swami Sai Premananda