Mentor Axioms and Assumptions (Amanda Nguy)

1


1) Make a list of axioms and assumptions in Mentor

growth is a "positive" thing and something desirable (Patrick Suthers 1)

examination and questioning of one's beliefs, values and assumptions is important for growth (Patrick Suthers 1)

the 4 Rogerian principles: radical honesty, radical openness, unconditional positive regard, and empathy (Patrick Suthers 1)

journaling facilitates growth (Patrick Suthers 1)

that practices and commitments aid in growth (Patrick Suthers 1)

experience is of higher value that pure rational methods (Patrick Suthers 1)

that _Siddahrtha_ is a useful text for evaluating a student's first levels of commitment  (Patrick Suthers 1)

that there are components to growth which can be generalized and applied to a wide variety of people (Patrick Suthers 1)

(my) judgements and expectations of others closes me to them (Patrick Suthers 1)

that people have distortions (Patrick Suthers 1)

that life changes and where one is on a certain day will not be the place where one is forever (Patrick Suthers 1)

that we choose how to respond to events and stimuli (whether consciously or not) and that this process can be altered (Patrick Suthers 1)

we can always walk away (Patrick Suthers 1)

increase in empathy is something desirable (Patrick Suthers 1)

that each member supports and is dependent on the others (Patrick Suthers 1)

that what is shared is confidential  (Patrick Suthers 1)

that I have to find my own answers (Patrick Suthers 1)

the ultimately life is not meaningless (Patrick Suthers 1)

that often other people can see things in my personality that I am blind to (Patrick Suthers 1)

that each of us projects onto others  (Patrick Suthers 1)

people who are different are not "bad" or "better", simply different (Patrick Suthers 1)

pain is inherent in growth (Patrick Suthers 1)

Rumi is a source of wisdom (Patrick Suthers 1)




Pain is inherent in growth and the pain is valuable (Mark Orr 1)

Sharing my work helps my growth and that of the rest of Cor (Mark Orr 1)

Willingness to work with Connie on personal growth work (Mark Orr 1)

Alcohol and drug use/abuse are detrimental to my growth work (Mark Orr 1)

I can choose how I respond in any given situation including how I respond to my emotions (Mark Orr 1)

Only I can satisfy my needs, you cannot and I have no justification for expecting such. (Mark Orr 1)

Neither Connie nor anyone in Cor can make me grow, it is my choice to be proactive. (Mark Orr 1)

I am moving toward a position in which my world consciousness is greater. (Mark Orr 1)

The work boils down to being mindful of self and life and making proactive choices on that knowledge (Mark Orr 1)

Meditation is one of the most useful tools we have. (Mark Orr 1)


There are parts of me that I do not live, and things that I live that aren't truly me. (Andy Trent 1)

Connie knows what she is doing. (Andy Trent 1)


Honesty (as honest as we can get.  a committment to looking at the truth which means not avoiding things that cause pain or that you don't want to look at and being honest with yourself about how you feel about them.  Saying I don't like this or I don't want to do it and doing it anyway) (Danyel Bruggnik 1)

Openness (with empathy.  this works with the honesty.  I can't see how you can healthy have one without the other.  Openness means not just being open about yourself and things going through your head, but also being open to other people and their ideas) (Danyel Bruggnik 1)

Choosing to love (unconditional positive regard) (being in mentor is a choice and with choosing to love its a choice to care about the people involved and perhaps the ideas (the latter feels less true) (Danyel Bruggnik 1)

Committment to the process (the process is a necessary part of the work and learning to live in it feels important to me and to mentor) (Danyel Bruggnik 1)

Doing the work (there is a need to be journaling and working through the assignments that are given out by Connie.  I don't always understand why, but its important for me to be doing the work anyway even if I don't want to do it, this includes reading books and then responding to them by journaling about them, reading them is only one step in the process) (Danyel Bruggnik 1)


that pain needs to be experienced to learn its lessons (Aaron Bibb 1)

that it is important to have a peer group that is willing to work to move towards these axioms  (Aaron Bibb 1)

that our growth path is not "for" everyone and isn't the right path for everyone (Aaron Bibb 1)

that illegal drugs and excessive alcohol use cloud our perception and minds (Aaron Bibb 1)


Honesty is the cornerstone of growth. (James Rushing 1)

You can always say no. (James Rushing 1)

Thinking you're not codependent is a real good sign of resistance.
(James Rushing 1)

Thinking you're finished with your work is a sign of inflation.
(James Rushing 1)

Wanting to play is usually resistance. (James Rushing 1)

There is no "good" or "bad" when you're talking about growth. (James Rushing 1)

You won't ever get "there."  Get over it. (James Rushing 1)

Your peer group is who you're letting be equal with you. (James Rushing 1)

How much you trust others is in your head; it's not them, it's you.
(James Rushing 1)


Where you are is where you need to be, unless you feel called to move somewhere else; from then on out, until you move, you're not where you need to be. (Lewis Baumstark 1)

Commitment to be mindful: of pain, of tapes, of feelings, of others'
lives, of your own process, of creation. (Lewis Baumstark 1)

Experience AND observe your life and growth.  Simply observing doesn't cut it. (Lewis Baumstark 1)


That buffering thoughts or opinions genuinely felt by the undersigned diminishes himself and the group. (Michael Roettger 1)

Tuning in to the wavelengths of ALL other members of the group.
(Michael Roettger 1)

Wisdom often occurs in UNWANTED places. Therefore, unwanted places must be visited if learning/growing is to occur. (Michael Roettger 1)

That one must first become a fool before te genius can be found within. (Michael Roettger 1)

Every rights path involves taking a thousand wrong turns. (Michael Roettger 1)

The roadmap of life which the undersigned possesses is constantly being outdated and 8n need of redrawing. (Michael Roettger 1)

Less than 100% commitment is harming both the group and the undersigned. Therefore, attendance, journaling, keeping up with assignments, and constant mindfulness are necessary to not diminishing the group or the self. (Michael Roettger 1)

Every individual contains a part of God which the undersigned needs to see. Therefore, no one must be diminished or exalted in the eyes of the undersigned if he wishes to better see God. (Michael Roettger 1)

Professor Hood, the undersigned, and the other members of the group are human. Therefore understand inconsistencies and mistakes as being part of the human endeavor which are to be returned with LOVING, constructive criticism. (Michael Roettger 1)

That the "bad" which exists in the mind of the person is usually GOOD in disguise. (Michael Roettger 1)

That all members of the group are to be loved and appreciated by the undersigned for who they are, though their actions may be deemed with anger or skepticism. (Michael Roettger 1)


(Axiom is defined here as a self evident or universally recognized
truth)  (Christopher Berry 1)

All personal growth begins and ends with honesty. (Christopher Berry 1)

Emotions are as valid as fact. Be open to them. (Christopher Berry 1)

Emotional truth and rational truth are different. (Christopher Berry 1)

Individuals matter. (Christopher Berry 1)

Accept yourself the way you are; ddo not deceive, put on false fronts or masks. (Christopher Berry 1)

We are all capable of being loved and accepted by others. (Christopher Berry 1)

No one is perfect ;we do not always function at all times at the level we would like to. (Christopher Berry 1)

"Understanding is risky" By understanding other's views we allow ourselves to change. (Christopher Berry 1)

Guest house: accept the validity of negativity and allow it to run its course. (Christopher Berry 1)

Personal views change. Life is a process. Nothing is fixed.
(Christopher Berry 1)

You can understand something without believing it; you can believe something without understanding it; and it doesn't make either one necessarily right. (Christopher Berry 1)

a.	(axiom) Roger's axioms (Craig Schuff 1)
i.	Radical Openness
ii.	Radical Honesty
iii.	Empathy
iv.	Unconditional Love

b.	(axiom) Confidentiality (Craig Schuff 1)
i.	What you say will not go outside the group without permission.
This is a safe place. (Craig Schuff 1)

ii.	Group members practicing openness do so in an environment with
minimal judgment.  Reflection and critical thinking is not personal but situational. (Craig Schuff 1)

c.	(assumption) Each participant is a seeker of truth (Craig Schuff 1)
i.	understanding of self, others, and the surrounding world with the
goal of improving yourself and your relationships with others. (Craig Schuff 1)

ii.	The group will not tolerate goals of deception, corruption, or
domination.  Anyone seeking to manipulate others for personal gain will not be allowed to continue with the group. (Craig Schuff 1)

d.	Gnothi Sotin  (sp?)  Know Thyself (Craig Schuff 1)

e.	Before no self, there must be whole self (Craig Schuff 1)


i.	Selflessness comes after the creation of a healthy ego (Craig Schuff 1)







2


trust in the process (Patrick Suthers 2)

pain (Patrick Suthers 2)

write dump / emotional journals without trying to process the statements, and later go back and look at them rationally and see what is true and what isn't  (Patrick Suthers 2)

working in groups (whether focus groups or totem poles or whatever) (Patrick Suthers 2)

alcohol and drug abuse are hindrances to growth (Patrick Suthers 2)

not bragging about or talking about mentor to other people (Patrick Suthers 2)


Dump journals are by definition irrational.  They are not attacks on anyone, but an expression of intense emotion.  Rational statements should be made in a separate work.  (Mark Orr 2)


Journaling is a neccessity.  Journals do not have to be sent out to others but it helps both myself and others. (Mark Orr 2)

Dont advertise mentor.  It creates conflict for Connie and the rest of Cor.  It also may have an adverse affect on someone's self esteem.
(Mark Orr 2)

We are our own best resources, dont be afraid to ask other people questions, especially where they are experts. (Mark Orr 2)

Journals should be as honest as I can possibly make them.  I am not here to impress anyone or make myself feel good, but instead to accomplish a set of goals. (Mark Orr 2)

You are always free to walk away from any question or event.  You may be asked for reasons for walking away (Mark Orr 2)

During group meetings I will be mindful of my desire to talk and determine if my comment contibutes to the current focus of the meeting or if it is for personal gratification. If it is the latter I will note it and keep my silence.  If what I have to say is interesting but not pertinent or my question will lead to a long digression I will write it down and save it for an appropriate time. (Mark Orr 2)

Be on time for all meetings (Mark Orr 2)

Do not eat during the meetings as food and bathroom breaks interrupt the entire group and prevent depth work. (Mark Orr 2)

Do not have sub conversations during group meetings.  If this is a necessity, do it out of the room or on paper. (Mark Orr 2)

Bring pen and paper to all meetings.  This is work, not play time. (Mark Orr 2)

Sarcasm, especially during depth work, clouds understanding and is counter productive (Mark Orr 2)


be real: about yourself and where you are coming from (Heather Bailey 2)

think before you act (later this works into a feltsense thing where thought (Heather Bailey 2)

and action and feeling all become one thing, but you have to work to get there) (Heather Bailey 2)

really look at your defenses (Heather Bailey 2)

remember that you affect others and keep that in mind in all that you do (Heather Bailey 2)

name and tag the irrational (and thereby put it in a safe place) and then purge it and be honest about the irrational (Heather Bailey 2)

develop your rational so it can be a helpful tool and not a destructive tool (Heather Bailey 2)

work towards balance (Heather Bailey 2)

learn to embrace process and be conscious of your processes (Heather Bailey 2)

most of all, be conscious (Heather Bailey 2)


that we try to live the axioms as well as we can (Aaron Bibb 2)

using journalling to sort out issues, feelings, etc. (Aaron Bibb 2)

label dump journals as such (Aaron Bibb 2)

making an effort not to judge journals (or people in general) (Aaron Bibb 2)


Confidentiality is a must.  It builds trust. (Lewis Baumstark 2)

Sometimes (often) people need their space to grow.  Allow them to have it. (Lewis Baumstark 2)

Only you can know what's right for you.  I can offer suggestions, but I don't have your answers, only my own. (Lewis Baumstark 2)


Custom of sharing with Connie to provide her with information to help her help guide you through your work.  (Shannon Tuttle 2)

Custom of reading and writing about K. Bradford Brown's Touchstones (Shannon Tuttle 2)

Custom of a special set of vocabulary words. (Shannon Tuttle 2)

a.	 (-5)-----(+5) (Craig Schuff 2)

b.	mailing list (Craig Schuff 2)


i.	The mailing list is informal but a few shortcuts can be used (Craig Schuff 2)

ii.	Emails labeled as journals are taken as such, rhetorical or
otherwise. (Craig Schuff 2)


iii.	emails sent to the group labeled Dump are not examined critically
but recognized as emotional outpouring. (Craig Schuff 2)

iv.	At any time emails can be labeled with special requests or
questions, or requests for support. (Craig Schuff 2)


v.	Participants engaged in debate are subject to scrutiny for logical
fallacy and misused phrases (Craig Schuff 2)

1.	I feel, I think, I believe, and others have specific meanings
(Craig Schuff 2)

2.	developing precision in language and articulation aid communication
as well as self knowledge (Craig Schuff 2)

c.	mbti (Craig Schuff 2)

i.	used in short hand INFP, ENTP, etc (Craig Schuff 2)

1.	the goal is to understand the subtleties of the letters (Craig Schuff 2)

2.	it can then be used to communicate large concepts quickly (Craig Schuff 2)


d.	perry scale (Craig Schuff 2)

i.	Perry's model of cognitive and ethical development serves as a
discussion and teaching tool and can be used in shorthand (Craig Schuff 2)

e.	Kohlburg's model of faith development (Craig Schuff 2)

i.	As with Perry (Craig Schuff 2)

f.	Underhill, etc (Craig Schuff 2)

i.	As above so below (Craig Schuff 2)






3


I am committed to helping the world. (Christopher Berry 3)

I am committed to helping others grow.  My primary reason for being a member of this group is not personal growth, but to assist the development of others through shared experiences. (Christopher Berry 3)

I trust all of you implicitly and without question or regard to maturity level.
I trust and love anyone needing this group regardless of intellectual level, personal, religious, sexual, or any other views, beliefs, or practices. (Christopher Berry 3)

I believe in growth along many axises: spiritual, developmental, social, personal, rational, religious, and many others.  These axises interact with one another.  One may not be neglected without detriment to the others.
(Christopher Berry 3)

I am committed to "radical" honesty and being open. (Christopher Berry 3)

I am committed to my own personal growth and the realization that through helping others I develop skills necessary for my continued growth.
(Christopher Berry 3)

I am committed to developing a deeper sense of unconditional love and compassion. (Christopher Berry 3)

I am committed to keeping an open mind, and realizing that what I know now is not absolute and changeless.  "Truth is found in life and not merely in conceptual knowledge." (Christopher Berry 3)

I am committed to working with Connie and this group; the honest and open discussions related to developmental, personal, rational, educational, growth, and life issues. (Christopher Berry 3)

I believe that in sharing our values, our thoughts, and our emotions: the good of each and the bad of each, that we can grow in boundless directions.  I am committed to this sharing; I hope you can be too. (Christopher Berry 3)


commit to openess and non-judgement (or a don't know place) before you make up your mind/choose (if you do) (Heather Bailey 3)

work towards helping clear yourself trusting others to serve as mirrors for you (Heather Bailey 3)

commit to being a clear mirror for others (Heather Bailey 3)

name when you're not being clear and give a frame of reference (Heather Bailey 3)


To be at meetings every week and to be journalling and working through those processes.  To be sharing at least some stuff with the group, it doesn't have to be your whole head, but things that you are working on.  A committment to be honest and open with empathy.  To try to listen to what other people are really saying to you and about you. (Danyel Bruggnik 3)

Those who are out of town don't have to be at meetings and such, but working on doing the other parts of this work. (Danyel Bruggnik 3)

This one's tougher, and I think I'd rather do another journal on my commitments.  I can say briefly, though, that my major commitment is to act as though every person in Cor is my equal.  (James Rushing 3)

To that end I commit to journaling and sending my journals to the group.  (James Rushing 3)

I commit to helping others when my expertise is useful and shutting up when I don't have anything to offer. (James Rushing 3)

I commit to talking when it is to the point and not to make myself look good.  (James Rushing 3)

I commit to depedestalizing me.  (James Rushing 3)

I commit to accepting others as they are, and as they present themselves (James Rushing 3)

I commit to believing in every person (James Rushing 3)

I commit to loving every person. (James Rushing 3)


committment to cor:  i committ to being an unconditional friend to every memeber of cor. i am not only doing cor for me but for the others.  i realized this morning that is why I go to mass, not only for the structure but because I feel my presence is helping others.  (Margaret Web 3)

i committ to attending all the meetings.  (Margaret Web 3)

i committ to doing all the homework.  (Margaret Web 3)

i committ to examining all my fear and paranoia i have about being
excluded with in cor.   (Margaret Web 3)

i committ to giving the meeting my full undivided attention and not bouncing.  (Margaret Web 3)

committment to my self:  i committ to be honest in every`action of my life.  (Margaret Web 3)

I committ to an r'ship with mark.   (Margaret Web 3)

i committ to standing up for myself.  (Margaret Web 3)

I committ to action thru the fear when i am intimidated.  (Margaret Web 3)

i committ to practicing my beliefs.  (Margaret Web 3)

i committ to letting the emotions i am feeling show without hurting others.  (Margaret Web 3)

i committ to loving my self.  (Margaret Web 3)

path i am on:  i am on my path looking for truth, honest, and Love of all.  (Margaret Web 3)


I expect others to call me when I am not being honest of am being hurtful.  (Michael Orr 3)

I expect that I will hurt (Michael Orr 3)

I expect the group to bind and be committed of the Work and Cor (Michael Orr 3)

I expect us to be respectful of each other (Michael Orr 3)

I see cor as a place intended to promote/allow/encourage personal growth by bringing together a group, a community, with similar goals of honesty, openness, trust, support, and awareness. I have committed myself to being as truly ME as I know how to be.  (Amy Haase 3)

I'm trying to commit (do or do not, there is no try) to learning to be a part of the process. I am easily frustrated by the work, and too easily turned away by my own defenses (competency, insignificance, self-control, laziness, lack of commitment). I need, for myself (both for that nebulous growth stuff :) and to prove to myself that I really can do this) to just jump in and focus. (Amy Haase 3)

To ask questions instead of zoning out. (Amy Haase 3)







I prefer that I carry out my commitments and that I become a more loving, open human being. (Patrick Suthers 4)

I would like to become more clear and less ego driven because I see again that I must ultimately forge my own path (that is, autonomy and interdependence are important things to develop and be aware of) and that until I work on these areas further growth will be hindered.
(Patrick Suthers 4)

I would like to develop a group of people who can be real in Madison.
I see cor as a place where I can
learn and also share who I am and also help aid in others growth.

I would prefer that Cor is a group of people who are accepting, committed to growth, honesty, and being real. (Patrick Suthers 4)

I prefer that people call me on places where I am not honest either with myself or others, and where I am making judgement statements or placing demands and accusations on myself or others. (Patrick Suthers
4)

I also prefer that people commit to the work and focus on being who they are without masks and the dramas because then I can truly see them.  (Patrick Suthers 4)

I would like to get e-mail from each person on a semi-regular / frequent basis of at least every other week so I can be aware of where they are and what is important to them. (Patrick Suthers 4)


I expect others to call me when I am not being honest or am being hurtful (Michael Orr 4)

I expect that I will hurt (Michael Orr 4)

I expect the group to bond and be committed to the Work and Cor (Michael Orr 4)

I expect us to be respectful of each other (Michael Orr 4)


I expect cor and myself to be as honest as is possible (Heather Bailey 4)

I expect cor and myself to hold everyone one of us in our hearts (Heather Bailey 4)

I expect to work on compassion (Heather Bailey 4)

I expect to work on sharing the core parts of myself (Heather Bailey 4)

I expect to work on being okay with having my perceived boundaries disappear (Heather Bailey 4)


I expect that I am going to annoy and disagree with some members of cor (Andy Trent 4)

I expect that I will learn a lot from cor. (Andy Trent 4)

I expect thta we will all learn a lot, but I have no idea what direction it will take. (Andy Trent 4)


cor:
that each member make every effort to attend each meeting (Aaron Bibb 4)

that everyone be aware of the effects of what they say (be empathic) (Aaron Bibb 4)

that we are each willing to work to move towards our axioms and ideals (Aaron Bibb 4)

that we are open to each other's ideas with as little judgment as possible (Aaron Bibb 4)


My expectations of Cor are that everyone will be committed, that everyone will grow, that everyone will listen to each other, that we'll all find a place to be open and honest, that we will bond as a group.  I see such potential in this group, and I don't think anyone else does except for Connie.  It's pretty awesome, and I'm pulling for it.  (James Rushing 4)

I expect myself to have the discipline to journal and share the journals, and to catch myself when I'm putting me on a pedestal and
knock it down.   (James Rushing 4)

I expect others to help me with my work, and I expect myself to help them.  I expect us to work together as a group to help each other grow.  (James Rushing 4)


Goals, personal:
Find out what being real truly is. (Lewis Baumstark 4)

Learn how to commit fully. (Lewis Baumstark 4)

Integrate my body into growth; I can do the mental, emotional, and spiritual fairly well.  Body is still lagging far behind. (Lewis Baumstark 4)

Listen more completely, without judgments, opinions, filters getting in the way. (Lewis Baumstark 4)

Autonomy of values, of action. (Lewis Baumstark 4)


TO LEARN AND GROW AS LIFE PERMITS (Michael Roettger 4)

To be open to new ideas and experiences  (Michael Roettger 4)

To learn emotion and better communication with individuals (Michael Roettger 4)

To become more ignorant (Michael Roettger 4)

To embrace and share pain (Michael Roettger 4)

To be mindful at all times (Michael Roettger 4)

To choose his own path, not anyone else's (Michael Roettger 4)

To help others so that he can help himself (Michael Roettger 4)

To enter real relationships with others (Michael Roettger 4)

To interact better wit individuals of the opposite gender so that the undersigned can better see that they are really no different than himself (Michael Roettger 4)

To practice: BALANCE, BALANCE, BALANCE. (Michael Roettger 4)

To interact better with people of his own age. (Michael Roettger 4)

To not compromise his moral character, but change when needed.
(Michael Roettger 4)

To learn to be a fool so that greater wisdom can be gained. (Michael Roettger 4)

To accept the good and the bad, so long as it is REAL. (Michael Roettger 4)



--
Love and joy always from Amanda!