-by Craig Schuff
1.make a list of axioms and assumptions you see in Mentor
a.(axiom) Roger's axioms
i.Radical Openness
ii.Radical Honesty
iii.Empathy
iv.Unconditional Love
b.(axiom) Confidentiality
i.What you say will not go outside the group without permission.  This is a safe place.
ii.Group members practicing openness do so in an environment with minimal judgment.  Reflection and critical thinking is not personal but situational.
c.(assumption) Each participant is a seeker of truth i.Understanding of self, others, and the surrounding world with the goal of improving yourself and your relationships with others.
ii.The group will not tolerate goals of deception, corruption, or domination.  Anyone seeking to manipulate others for personal gain will not be allowed to continue with the group.
d.Gnothi Sotin  (sp?)  Know Thyself
e.Before no self, there must be whole self i.Selflessness comes after the creation of a healthy ego f.Presence of mind (Mindfulness) i.We act and interact hundreds of times a day, much of our decision making is automatic with little recognition ii.We seek make our decisions and thought process conscious, keeping choice and action in the present moment rather than a pattern of the past 1.Journaling regularly will aid this process.
2.Regular meditation will bring focus and control into the picture.
g.Substance
i.We commit to ourselves and each other that we will abstain from illegal drug use or the abuse of legal substances while in Mentor 1.This prevents complications during meditation.
2.The search for truth is complicated enough already

2. what are some of the conventions of the Work?
a.(-5)-----(+5)
b.mailing list
i.The mailing list is informal but a few shortcuts can be used ii.Emails labeled as journals are taken as such, rhetorical or otherwise.
iii.emails sent to the group labeled Dump are not examined critically but recognized as emotional outpouring.
iv.At any time emails can be labeled with special requests or questions, or requests for support.
v.Participants engaged in debate are subject to scrutiny for logical fallacy and misused phrases 1.I feel, I think, I believe, and others have specific meanings 2.developing precision in language and articulation aid communication as well as self knowledge c.mbti i.used in short hand INFP, ENTP, etc 1.the goal is to understand the subtleties of the letters 2.it can then be used to communicate large concepts quickly d.perry scale i.Perry's model of cognitive and ethical development serves as a discussion and teaching tool and can be used in shorthand e.Kohlburg's model of faith development i.As with Perry f.Underhill, etc i.As above so below