From: IN%"heather@skyquest2.net"  "Heather Bailey"  7-OCT-1999 23:01:35.25
To:   IN%"gte410r@prism.gatech.edu"  "lewis", IN%"ars9648@tntech.edu"
"andrew", IN%"art2687@tntech.edu"  "andy", IN%"cmb1033@tntech.edu"
"chris", IN%"chood@tntech.edu"  "connie", IN%"dmb1153@tntech.edu"
"danyel", IN%"def6696@tntech.edu"  "david", IN%"heat
CC:
Subj: j: crisis of vocation


i hate to write about this because i'm afraid that i sound like a
broken record and people are tired of hearing about my problems with
the direction that i'm choosing for my life and just wish that i would
get on with it. i know that i feel this way about it. and things seem
only to be getting worse. i remember james going through something
similar when he went to grad school and i know that connie's talked
about the initial disillusionment, but it's not really helping me out
any.

every day i feel more and more pessimistic about my career in social
psychology. the more i learn and the more that i see of what's in the
future for me, the more i'm disgusted. academic psychology is a sham.
it's full of pretention and little substance. i've been going at this
from what i'd like to do in psychology, but that just isn't done in
psychology. it's all about publishing, about getting involved in
mainstream research. but i find all of that bogus. what i'd really
like to do doesn't fit into scientific psychology. and here i've
landed myself in the most scientifically oriented area of psychology
(experimental).

the other day in my theories of personality class, my prof said,
"modern, western psychology is the study of behavior and not hte study
of consciousness." that shocked me. and i realized one of the sources
of my recent struggles. i've been trying to be involved in a study of
consciousness in a field that is all about the study of behavior. so
try as i might, i just couldn't hook in.

today in that class, my prof was trying to talk about some of the
consciousness work that has been done in eastern psychology (he's
really taken up with yoga and some sutras from india recently). he'd
ask the class if they knew of so-and-so or such-and-such practice. and
i was the onlyone in the class who knew anything about it. he'd ask me
to say something and i'd talk a little bit about it. but there are
several conflicts here. first of all, i'm still the only person in my
classes who really talks. i'm the only one who seems to read on my own
outside of class. and this sets me apart. i dont want to seem like i
'm kissing the teacher's ass. but, god, i'd really like to talk about
some of this stuff. and everyone looks at me like i'm a freak. i'm
dying to eat up knowledge and that makes me an outcast to my peers.

i don't want to get in a group of girls in any of my classes where
they giggle hysterically, flip their hair, or gossip about absolute
drivel. i couldn't live with myself if i tried ot squish myself into
that role that holds nothing for me. it's not hte life i want. and it
would kill me inside to compromise my integrity to the point of
pretending to be that way. but, dammit, i'm so tired of being alone in
this. i'm in a field where i'm not doing what everyone else is doing,
i'm not interested in what anyone else is interested in, i ask
questions that make people uncomfortable. i can't rationalize away
anymore the thought that i'm in the wrong place, with the wrong
people, doing the wrong thing.

i was reading roger's ON BECOMING A PERSON today (we have to read an
original work by a personality theorist) and came across something
htat stopped me dead. he was talking about being at seminary and he
and some other students asked to make a seminar where they could ask
their own questions and structure their own discussion without any
leadership on the part of the faculty. and they got to do it. it was
like a kick in my gut when i read that. where in the world are people
like that? i would absolutely kill for an opportunity like that.

a prof was saying today that he'd told a student who had been
disillusioned with the psych program at MTSU where she could find a
program that was more like what she was looking for where they studied
non traditional psychology. and maybe htat's something i should look
in to. but while i'm pulled to it, it's hard to talk myself into it.
i'm seen as enough of a freak as it is. but stuff that isn't main
stream psychology is *really* looked down on. would i ever be able to
get a job if i got a degree in something like that?

i think that i'm honestly looking for something more like
philosophical psychology. i really love the study of religion. i like
seeing the psychological constructs of other cultures. i thinkt aht we
can really learn from that and integrate those ideas in our daily
lives. i want to be able to teach others what i'm so excited about. i
want to have a dialogue about my ideas and the ideas of others where
everyone is excited about this kind of knowledge and really wants to
share it. i want to study the development of thought. i want to study
how our society has developed and matured. i want to study things that
can't be measured in a laboratory but that i think are just as valid
and important for us to understand. there are symbols, archetypes,
constructs, rituals that we use to influence our development and i
want to study that. but not just study, i want to help these things
become more clear. i want to facilitate knowledge, make it available
to people, and help them to help themselves.

if i break from "respected" psychology, will i be able to have respect
for myself? will i be able to have respect for myself if i stay where
i am? should i do like carl rodgers and just do my own thing and go
for what i desire and maybe psychology will come around and actually
start to include this stuff in the curriculum.

i want to be able to talk about the psychology of other religious
systems, of other cultures, to university classes. but i can't see a
road that leads to there from here.

while i was walking to my car today i was pondering over the meaning
of the word "discriminate." a prof was using it to mean evaluate
critically. but i hadn't really ever drawn the connection in my head
between using that word in the context of analysis of a situation and
when using it in the context of acting out on a racial, gender,
religious, etc. prejudice. using hte fuzzy meaning that i had in my
head for that word in the analytical context in terms of using it on
people for their race or gender was really flipping around my world.
and i can't really explain why. it just seemed really wild to see it
from that perspective. and while i was thinking through all of this
and being wowed by it, i thought to myself, "god, i must be retarded."
i thought about trying to explain why this seemed so neat to me to
someone else and i couldn't see that i'd come across as anything but
retarded. other people don't see a big shift like i do in cases like
this. and that makes me think that other people already had that
figured out and i was just slow getting on the bandwagon.

and that sprouted up som eother thoughts. maybe i label myself as
stupid for stuff like this because if i'm stupid and everyone else has
it, then if i just get my act together, then i'll stop being miserable
and i'll be on everyone else's frequency. but i don't think that's
going to happen. i really am just vastly different from other people.
and that's something that i really need to come to terms with. i dont'
like to look at that because it makes me feel more profoundly and
cosmically alone than i think that i can bear. i can't even be elitist
about it. it's like i'm in a completely different universe and there
aren't even comparisons.

that also led me to think that i just think very differently from most
people. i don't define words with a verbal definition. it's a wordless
meaning tha ti attach to it. which is why i'm so amazed when i come
across something like this. i still remember what a break through it
was for me to realize that the letter W meant two Us. i don't think
about literal meanings hardly ever. so when i'm hit with one, it flips
things around for me and it' slike everything re-orients. but thinking
this just made my situation all the worse because it was getting
harder to just rationalize away.

then i got melodramatic (which usually makes me laugh). i was
remembering the scene where eliza doolittle says, "what have you left
me good for?" and i have to apply that to myself. i can't find it in
me to settle. i can't simply intellectualize things and live in that
simple world of rules and structures. i can't ooze feeling and impulse
and immerse myself in the emotions of others. but that leaves me in
this place of unbearable friction. where do i fit in this world? i
feel this yearning just about ot pop out of me. i need to give it form
and let all of that energy take shape. but i feel inept and bumbling
because i dont' know what to do about it. but i do know that my recent
attempts are doing the opposite of what i'd like to do.

i'm doing just fine in my classes except that i feel like their
killing me. every day i feel more hollow, empty, and desolate. and i'm
worried that i'll get to the point where i finally sell out and i roll
over into this pointless existence of doing trivial research adn
publishing a bunch of nonsense (but it's got stats, so it must be
good, right? what's better that hard numbers?).

on a more positive note, i got a part time job. i'm receptionist for a
psychology office. ;). i actually used to be a client of the primary
psychologist there about ten years ago. i hardly remember her. but
it's a friendly office and i think that this will give me a more
productive interface with other people and that might help alieviate
some of this angst.

so i'm going to start looking for programs that better suit my needs.
i'm not sure if i want to look at transfering for next semester, or if
i should jsut finish up a year here. we'll see. i'm not one to make
impulsive decisions. so it might take me a year to actually come
around to a place where i've made up my mind on it. but i feel better
for having gotten all of this out in the open.

love
heather
