from *Barbarism with a Human Face*


...this means that the question of Marxism, which has troubled us so much
during the last ten years, is perhaps not as simple as some people
believed and as I myself thought for a long time.  That it is not saying
enough to proclaim oneself anti-Marxist, even from the left or from a
quasi-Maoist position.  That we have to reevaluate the importance and the
meaning of the debate, and guard against the crass optimism of "We've
won" and the facile atheism whose subtle tricks are only too familiar.
Marxism is the religion of this time?

      ...First of all: Against all expectations, in spite of our vows
and our obstinate denials, Marxism is healthy, has never been so healthy.
 The crisis of Marxism exists only in our minds and in our books.  I said
that its fate will resemble the past fate of Christianity, that it will
impregnate, in spite of its intellectual decline, every stratum, every
pore of civil and political society.

      ...This Marxism is of course not written down in books or learned
treatises.  It is contained in a few simple formulas, in a finite
collection of cliches which suffice to create a mosaic of the spirit of
the age....Marxism is more than ever the central question of the day:
Sartre did not know how right he was to assert that it was "unavoidable."
 We need an archaeology of the present time that would be able to
discover the traces of Marxism in the tight patterns that regulate the
shape of our discourse and govern the ways in which it is propagated.

      Can it be said that this Marxism is not really Marxism, on the
pretext that it circulates, as though it were a gas, through texts that
make no reference to it and among people who are ignorant of it?  In a
sense, this is true, but it is also true that every great system of
thought is illiterate, that a text isn't worth anything until the
ignorant appropriate it, and that you don't need to read in order to
recite, nor even to recite in order to be, much less know something in
order to understand it.  The West was Christian even when the Scriptures
were not read in the countryside.  The Greek world was Homeric even if,
outside the Mycenaean palaces, the *Iliad* and the *Odyssey* were
literally dead letters.  In fact, we have to stop judging the importance
of a system of thought according to the noise its heralds make or the
work of its commentators.  We have to sharpen our hearing enough to be
able to hear another noise, the scarcely audible murmur from the chorus
of imitators and ventriloquists' dummies.

      ...As soon as Marxism became a koine, it lost in understanding
what it gained in extension, and it paid for its expansion with total
sterility....The decline of the Roman Empire began precisely at the
moment when Latin functioned as the common language of the peoples it had
conquered.  The death of the Hellenic world was also contemporaneous with
the apogee of the Hellenistic koine, a common and economical language
which had lost the beautiful extravagance of the language of Sophocles
and Aeschylus.  The Church was always most alive, intellectually most
vigorous, during the periods when it was most divided -- the Reformation,
of course, the liberalization of the nineteenth century, the Marxizing of
Catholicism today.  These examples are there to show that a common
language means the death of discourse, that once we hear each other we no
longer understand, once we eliminate noise we can no longer hear
anything, and that by the same token, Marxism is, simultaneously and
without contradiction, the thought of our century and the obstacle to its
thought.

      ...Marxism has become a representative case, the most pressing
and contemporary of representative cases, of the eternal problem of
misery and submission.  Thus, in reality, the only point of view that
holds up and does not get bogged down in the swamps of agnosticism is the
one that has always stood up against the image of misery: the point of
view of rebellion and the wager on a world without a master.
Anti-Marxist?  Yes, that is what we must be, and it means two things:
first, that -- powerless to think of revolution without reducing it to
schemata that stifle its explosive originality, incapable, for example,
of thinking about the great medieval rebellions without seeing them
simply as an "anticipation" of communist politics, a mixture of "archaic
vestiges" and "proletarian possibilities," the ghostly "prophecy" of an
end of history that has always been already given -- Marxism is,
literally, counterrevolutionary thought; and, second, that if thereby the
question of revolution can once more have a meaning, if the mad project
to change one's life and to change the world can today have some basis,
if the West needs new reasons to struggle and new buttresses for the
foolishness of rebellion, then, quite naturally, this foolishness will be
of value, and the old dream will be embodied, against the modern Prince,
against politics as it exists concretely, and therefore against
materialism and materialism alone.  There is no problem of Marxism; there
is only, once again, the problem of revolution.



...I have done nothing but raise in my way the three famous questions of
the "Mandarin of Konigsberg," nothing but tirelessly reiterate the
arrogant challenges that he hurled at his century.  *What can I know?*  I
have answered clearly, I hope: little, very little, except that the world
is in a bad state, that its prophets of happiness are very often the
birds of doom, and that there is no worse danger today than disguise and
deception.  *What am I permitted to hope?*  I have tried to answer with
many arguments: little, very little, as well, if is true that the Master
is another name for the world, that as soon as one is dethroned another
takes up the scepter, and that the red Princes are finally here, pawing
at the threshold of power.  *What, finally, should I do?*  I have said it
along the way but I will repeat it in conclusion: We must hold high what
Descartes called a "provisional morality," which for us can be summed up
in this simple slogan: No matter where it may come from, resist the
barbarian threat.

      Resist from what standpoint?  It goes without saying that never
again will we be counselors to Princes, never again will we hold or
strive for power.  Plato knew this when, toward the end of his life,
incredibly weary, he accepted the invitation of Dionysios of Syracuse:
The adventure always turns out badly, and this is neither an appropriate
role nor an appropriate place for a philosopher.  Cicero and Sallust
learned it very quickly at their own expense: One does not "warn" Pompey
with impunity, nor does one "enlighten" Caesar, for the price is
sometimes the dignity and the very place of thought.  The end of
Diderot's dream, the reef on which it was wrecked, is well known:
Catherine II restoring the use of the whip in the Russian countryside.
We know what Voltairean enlightenment means: a sardonic alibi for
Frederick's despotism.  And we all remember the pitiful spectacle of a
hallucinated Heidegger singing the praises of the Fuhrer and the three
"services" of the Reich...

      With what weapons can we struggle?  One thing more is certain: We
will never again be guiding lights for the people; we will never again
place ourselves at the "service" of the rebels.  What do the "masses"
need with the vain "principles" that intellectuals inoculate them with --
a discreet reminder of millennial servitude?  What does science matter to
the rebels, since their whole history attests that they only enter into
rebellion exactly in order *not to know*, to reject the order of time,
its memory and its design?  What good is our enlightenment to them, in
the darkness of that *night* which they have made their home, once they
have adopted the dream of breaking history in two?  In fact, the
"revolutionary" intellectual is a pitiful figure -- the salt of the
earth, he thinks; in reality an executioner.  The perennial "guides"
speak a shameful and abject language, and they always, in the end,
justify massacre and repression.  Trotsky joined with the masses in 1917,
he assassinated them in 1921.  Lenin gave the land to the peasants in
1918, he took it back in 1919.  The "mass line" in China was less the
motive power of disorder on earth than the clamor of rediscovered order.
There, too, the lesson is clear: We must, forever, give up "serving the
people."

      The way is indeed harsh and strait is the gate.  If it is true
that we are neither the bureaucrats nor the leaven of history, that the
king doesn't give a damn for the wise man and that the wise man is not a
king, that the masses don't give a damn for enlightenment and that the
enlightened abuse the masses, then this and simply this is left for us:
that we are that species which the West names Intellectuals, that we have
to spell out that name and take on that status, that it is urgent to
accept it and to resign ourselves to its misery.  All that are left to
us, against the barbarian procession, are the weapons of our language and
the place on which we stand -- the arms of our museums and the place of
our solitude...

      ...And this is why I claim that the antibarbarian intellectual
will also be an artist.  For art is nothing but the rampart built in
every age against the emptiness of death, the chaos of shapelessness, and
the quicksand of horror.  For only the poet, the painter, and the
musician know how to name evil and fish for its bloody pearls.  For
societies hardly have a choice in dealing with their surpluses -- either
perverse expenditure or sublime icons.  For the artist, in a word, is the
one who, out of necessity, has no ulterior motives, the one who, from the
greatest disorder, can create the order of an image.  I find it
satisfying that my friend Marek Halter, who set out, mad with politics,
to conquer kings, has returned, mad with despair, to his canvas, the
child of sorrow.  I like the fact that Andre Malraux locked himself into
his imaginary museum from the day he recognized man in the crouching
creature "struggling against the earth" described in *Les Noyers de
l'Altenburg.*  I imagine that a people of poets would have been more
capable than any other of resisting Nazism, that a shield of lights and
shadows might have halted the river of mud.  What is at stake is what
psychoanalysts tell us sustains a cure:  We must divert and condense, and
thereby disarm, the evil spell of the death instinct.  It is a question,
in this illusion, of the future, neither more nor less, of civilization.


            -- Bernard-Henri Levy


from the jacket blurb:

      Bernard-Henri Levy was born in 1948 in Algeria, raised in France
and has pursued a number of careers.  He holds a teaching degree in
philosophy; he has been an advisor to the Government of Bangladesh as
well as to Francois Mitterand, leader of the French Socialist party; a
former leftwing journalist, he is now an editor with the Paris publishing
house Grasset.

[*Barbarism with a Human Face* was published in France in 1977.  First
English translation published 1979.]


