A week in the life of a Help Desk Employee

Monday
------
8:05am	User called to say they forgot password.
         Told them to use password retrieval utility called FDISK. Blissfully ignorant, they thank
	me and hang up. God, we let the people vote and drive, too?

8:12am	Accounting called to say they couldn't access expense reports 
	database. Gave them Standard Sys Admin Answer #112, "Well, it works
	for me." Let them rant and rave while I unplugged my coffeemaker
	from the UPS and plugged their server back in. Suggested they try
	it again. One more happy customer...

8:14am	User from 8:05 call said they received error message "Error 
	accessing Drive 0." Told them it was an OS problem. Transferred
	them to microsupport.

11:00am	Relatively quiet for last few hours. Decide to plug support phone 
	back in so I can call my girlfriend. Says parents are coming into
	town this weekend. Put her on hold and transferred her to
	janitorial closet down in basement. What is she thinking? The
	"Myst" and "Doom" nationals are this weekend!

11:34am	Another user calls (do they ever learn?). Says they want ACL 
	changed on HR performance review database so that nobody but HR can
	access database. Tell them no problem. Hang up. Change ACL. 
	Add @MailSend so performance reviews are sent to */US.

12:00pm	Lunch

3:30pm	Return from lunch.

3:55pm	Wake up from nap. Bad dream makes me cranky. Bounce servers for no
	reason. Return to napping.

4:23pm	Yet another user calls. Wants to know how to change fonts on form.
	Ask them what chipset they're using. Tell them to call back when
	they find out.

4:55pm	Decide to run "Create Save/Replication Conflicts" macro so next 
        shift has something to do.


Tuesday
-------
8:30am	Finish reading support log from last night. Sounded busy. Terrible
	time with Save/Replication conflicts.

9:00am	Support manager arrives. Wants to discuss my attitude. Click on
	PhoneNotes SmartIcon. "Love to, but kinda busy. Put something in
        the calendar database!" I yell as I grab for the support lines,
        which have (mysteriously) lit up. Walks away grumbling.

9:35am	Team leader from R&D needs ID for new employee. Tell them they need
	form J-19R?9\\DARR\K1. Say they never heard of such a form. Tell
	them it's in the SPECIAL FORMS database. Say they never heard of such
	a database. Transfer them to janitorial closet in basement.

10:00am	Perky sounding intern from R&D calls and says she needs new ID. 
        Tell her I need employee number, department name, manager name, and
        marital status. Run @DbLookup against state parole board database,
        Centers for Disease Control database, and my Oprah Winfrey
        database. No hits. Tell her ID will be ready tonight. Drawing
        from the lessons learned in last week's "Reengineering for
        Customer Partnership," I offer to personally deliver ID to her
        apartment.

10:07am	Janitor stops by to say he keeps getting strange calls in basement. 
        Offer to train him on Notes. Begin now. Let him watch console
        while I grab a smoke.

1:00pm	Return from smoking break. Janitor says phones kept ringing, so he
	transferred them to cafeteria lady. I like this guy.

1:05pm	Big commotion! Support manager falls in hole left where I pulled 
        floor tiles outside his office door. Stress to him importance of
        not running in computer room, even if I do yell "Omigod-Fire!"

1:15pm	Development Standards Committee calls and complains about umlauts in
	form names. Apologizing for the inconvenience, I tell them I will fix
	it. Hang up and run global search/replace using gaks.

1:20pm	Mary Hairnet from cafeteria calls. Says she keeps getting calls for
	"Notice Loads" or "NoLoad Goats," she's not sure, couldn't hear
        over industrial-grade blender. Tell her it was probably "Lettuce
        Nodes." Maybe the food distributor with a new product? She thinks
        about it and hangs up.

2:00pm	Legal secretary calls and says she lost password. Ask her to check 
        in her purse, floor of car, and on bathroom counter. Tell her it
        probably fell out of back of machine. Suggest she put duct tape
        over all the air vents she can find on the PC. Grudgingly offer to
        create new ID for her while she does that.

2:49pm	Janitor comes back. Wants more lessons. I take off rest of day.


Wednesday
---------
8:30am	Irate user calls to say chipset has nothing to do with fonts on 
        form. Tell them Of course, they should have been checking "Bitset,"
        not "chipset." Sheepish user apologizes and hangs up.

9:10am	Support manager, with foot in cast, returns to office. Schedules
	10:00am meeting with me. User calls and wants to talk to support
	manager about terrible help at support desk. Tell them manager about
	to go into meeting. Sometimes life hands you material...

10:00am	Call Louie in janitorial services to cover for me. Go to support
        manager's office. He says he can't dismiss me but can suggest
        several lateral career moves. Most involve farm implements in
        third-world countries with moderate to heavy political turmoil. By
        and by, I ask if he's aware of new bug which takes full-text
        indexed random e-mail databases and puts all references to furry
        handcuffs and Bambi Boomer in Marketing on the corporate Web page.
        Meeting is adjourned as he reaches for keyboard, Web browser, and
        Tums.

10:30am	Tell Louie he's doing great job. Offer to show him mainframe and
        corporate PBX system sometime.

11:00am	Lunch.

4:55pm	Return from lunch.

5:00pm	Shift change. Going home.


Thursday
--------
8:00am	New guy ("Marvin") started today. "Nice plaids," I offer. Show him
	server room, wiring closet, and technical library. Set him up with
        IBM PC-XT. Tell him to quit whining, Notes runs the same in both
        monochrome and color.

8:45am	New guy's PC finishes booting up. Tell him I'll create new ID for 
        him. Set minimum password length to 64. Go grab smoke.

9:30am	Introduce Louie the custodian to Marvin. "Nice plaids," Louie
	comments. Is this guy great or what?!

11:00am	Beat Louie in dominos game. Louie leaves. Fish spare dominos out 
        of sleeves ("Always have backups"). User calls, says Accounting
        server is down. Untie Ethernet cable from radio antenna (better
        reception) and plug back into hub. Tell user to try again. 
        Another happy customer!

11:55am	Brief Marvin on Corporate Policy 98.022.01: "Whereas all new 
        employees beginning on days ending in 'Y' shall enjoy all proper
        aspects with said corporation, said employee is obligated to
        provide sustenance and relief to senior technical analyst on
        shift." Marvin doubts. I point to "Corporate Policy" database
        (a fine piece of work, if I say so myself!). "Remember, that's
        DOUBLE pepperoni and NO peppers!" I yell to Marvin as he steps over 
        open floor tile to get to exit door.

1:00pm	Oooooh! Pizza makes me so sleepy...

4:30pm	Wake from refreshing nap. Catch Marvin scanning want ads.

5:00pm	Shift change. Flick HR's server off and on several times (just 
        testing the On/Off button...). See ya tomorrow.


Friday
------
8:00am	Night shift still trying to replace power supply in HR server. Told
	them it worked fine before I left.

9:00am	Marvin still not here. Decide I might start answering these calls
	myself. Un-forward phones from Mailroom.

9:02am	Yep. A user call. Users in Des Moines can't replicate. Me and the
	Oiuji board determine it's sunspots. Tell them to call
	Telecommunications.

9:30am	Good God, another user! They're like ants. Says he's in San Diego 
        and can't replicate with Des Moines. Tell him it's sunspots, but
        with a two-hour difference. Suggest he reset the time on the
        server back two hours.

10:17am	Pensacola calls. Says they can't route mail to San Diego. Tell 
        them to set server ahead three hours.

11:00am	E-mail from corporate says for everybody to quit resetting the time 
        on their servers. I change the date stamp and forward it to
        Milwaukee.

11:20am Finish @CoffeeMake macro. Put phone back on hook.

11:23am	Milwaukee calls, asks what day it is.

11:25am	Support manager stops by to say Marvin called in to quit. "So hard 
        to get good help..." I respond. Support manager says he has
        appointment with orthopedic doctor this afternoon, and asks if I
        mind sitting in on the weekly department head meeting for him. 
        "No problem!"

11:30am	Call Louie and tell him opportunity knocks and he's invited to a
        meeting this afternoon. "Yeah, sure. You can bring your snuff," I
        tell him.

12:00am	Lunch.

1:00pm	Start full backups on UNIX server. Route them to device NULL to 
        make them fast.

1:03pm	Full weekly backups done. Man, I love modern technology!

2:30pm  Look in support manager's contact management database. Cancel 
        2:45pm appointment for him. He really should be at home resting,
        you know.

2:39pm	New user calls. Says want to learn how to create a connection
        document. Tell them to run connection document utility
        CTRL-ALT-DEL. Says PC rebooted. Tell them to call microsupport.

2:50pm	Support manager calls to say mixup at doctor's office means 
        appointment cancelled. Says he's just going to go on home. Ask
        him if he's seen corporate Web page lately.

3:00pm	Another (novice) user calls. Says periodic macro not working. 
        Suggest they place @DeleteDocument at end of formula. Promise to
        send them document addendum which says so.

4:00pm	Finish changing foreground color in all documents to white. Also 
        set point size to "2" in help databases.

4:30pm	User calls to say they can't see anything in documents. Tell them 
        to go to view, do a "Edit-Select All", hit delete key, and then
        refresh. Promise to send them document addendum which says so.

4:45pm	Another user calls. Says they can't read help documents. Tell them
	I'll fix it. Hang up. Change font to Wingdings.

4:58pm	Plug coffee maker into Ethernet hub to see what happens. Not (too)
	much.

5:00pm  Night shift shows up. Tell that the hub is acting funny and to 
        have a good weekend.
