Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring...
Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring... Ring...

Thank you for calling Technical Support. All of our technicians are
currently busy helping people even less competent than you, so please
hold for the next available technician. The waiting time is now
estimated at between fifteen minutes and eternity. In order to
expedite your call, please punch your 63-digit product identification
number onto your telephone touch pad, followed by your product serial
number, which can be found in a secret compartment inside your
computer where, for security purposes, it is printed in the smallest
typeface known to mankind. Do that now.

(Lengthy excerpt from Mahler's "Lugubrious" Symphony in C Minor)

Thank you again for calling Technical Support. We recommend that you
sit at your computer, preferably turning it on at some point, and have
at hand all your floppy disks, CD-ROM disks, computer manuals and
original packing materials in order to allow the technician to aid you
in the unlikely event that he ever takes your call. It would also be
helpful for you to refrain from sobbing while explaining your problem
to the technician. Shouting obscene threats will cause you to be
immediately disconnected and blackballed from further communication
with Technical Support, not only from ours but that of every other
electronics-related firm in the industrialized world.

(Medley of Hootie and the Blowfish hits rendered by the Mormon
Tabernacle Choir)

Thank you once again for calling Technical Support. In order to enable
us to better assist you, it would be helpful to know more about you
and your equipment. Have you called Technical Support before? If you
have, please press the numeral "one" on your telephone touchpad. If
not, press the numeral "two." If you are not sure, using the letters
on your touchpad, spell out the phrase: "I am confused and despondent
and quickly losing the will to live." Once you have finished, hang up
your phone and make arrangements to sell your computer because by the
time the technician takes your call, it will be obsolete, and you will
be too senile to use it anyway.

(Rangoon Opera Company's classic 1963 recording of Wagner's "Ring
Cycle" in its entirety)

Thank you for calling Technical Support. Unfortunately, all of our
technicians just went out for lunch. This means that to the estimated
waiting time we gave you earlier, you may now add at least another two
hours.

(Wayne Newton singing "Danke Schoen" 1,743 times)

Thank you for calling Technical Support. Before talking to the
technician about your problem and risking the possibility that you may
be wasting his valuable time, please ask yourself the following
questions: If my monitor screen is dark, is it possible I have
forgotten to plug in my computer or, alternately, that I have been
suddenly struck blind? Have I exhausted every possible means of help
before utilizing the sacred, last-resort-only telephone option? Have I
sent a fax to Fast Fax Technical Support? Have I consulted my manual?
Have I read the Read-Me notice on the floppy disk? Have I called up my
know-it-all geek cousin who I can't stand but who can probably fix
this thing for me in under five minutes? Have I given the central
processing unit of my computer a good, solid whack? If you can not
honestly answer "yes" to all these questions, please get off the line
immediately so that our overworked technicians can help those truly
desperate customers whose suffering is so much greater than yours.

(Recording of Tibetan monks performing a six-day chant celebrating the
reincarnation of one of their recently deceased colleagues into the
form of a salamander.)

Thank you for calling Technical Support. You may not be aware that
this week we are featuring a discount on a number of popular CD-ROM
titles you may wish to purchase, such as the best-selling [explicit
material] Doubler, which allows you to access [sexually explicit]
material from the Internet twice as fast. If you would like to hear
all 26,000 titles read to you, shout "Yes! Yes! Yes!" into the
telephone now. This will not cause you to lose your place in line for
Technical Support; in fact it may jump you ahead of several other
callers.

(Tape loop of background music from the soundtrack of Johnny Mnemonic
starring Keanu Reeves.)

Thank you for calling Technical Support. Our electronic sensors
indicate that you are about to slump over and die from a massive
frustration attack combined with severe dehydration from lack of food
and water. Before doing so, please take a moment to place your
telephone receiver back in its base and switch off your computer so as
not to wear down its internal battery. As a non-living person, you
will have no further need of Technical Support and so we regretfully
must remove you from our list of registered product users. Remember,
we valued your patronage and were happy to serve your needs. Do not
-hesitate to have your heirs or beneficiaries contact us should any
further technical problems arise.
