				THE LETTER 
 
       One day a woman named Louise fell asleep in her bed, and dreamed
 a very fitful dream.  She dreamed that someone in Hell wrote a letter to
 her, and it was to be delivered to her by a messenger.  The messenger
 passed between the lakes of burning fire and brimstone that occupies Hell,
 and found his way to the door that would lead him to the outside world.
 Louise dreamed that the messenger walked to her house, came inside, and
 gently but firmly woke Louise up.  He gave her the message, saying only
 that a friend had wrote it to her from Hell.  Louise, in her dream, with
 trembling hands took the letter and read:
 
   My Friend,
       I stand in Judgment now,
       and feel that you're to blame somehow.
       On earth, I walked with you day by day,
       and never did you point the way.
       You knew the Lord in truth and glory,
       but never did you tell the story.
       My knowledge then was very dim;
       you could have led me safe to Him.
       Though we lived together on the earth,
       you never told me of the second birth,
       and now I stand this day condemned,
       because you failed to mention Him.
       You taught me many things, that's true,
       I called you "friend" and trusted you,
       But I learn now that it's too late,
       you could have kept me from this fate.
       we walked by day and talked by night,
       and yet you showed me not the Light.
       You let me live, and love, and die,
       you knew I'd never live on high.
       Yes, I called you a "friend" in life,
       and trusted you through joy and strife.
       And yet on coming to the end,
       I cannot, now, call you "My Friend."
 
                               Marsha
 
 After reading the letter, Louise awoke.  The dream was still so real in
 her mind, and sweat dropped from her body in pools.  She swore she could
 still smell the acrid smell of brimstone and smoke from her room.  As she
 contemplated the meaning of her dream, she realized that as a Christian,
 she has failed in her duty to "go out to all the world and preach the
 gospel."  As she thought of that, she promised herself that the next day,
 she would call Marsha and invite her to church with her.  The next morning
 she called Marsha and this was the conversation:
  	Yes, Bill, Is Marsha there?
 	Louise, you don't know?
 	No, Bill, no what?
 	Marsha WAS KILLED LAST NIGHT IN A CAR ACCIDENT.  I thought you had
 	known.
 
 	Fellow Christian, is this your testimony?  Are you witnessing to your
 friends that you are with everyday?  Is there a friend in hell, asking you
 why you did not tell them about the Lord?
 	As Christians we must be Christ-Like.  Christ commanded us to go out
 and preach his word, so that others would come to the saving knowledge of
 God.  It says in the Bible in Romans 1:16 that we are not to be ashamed of
 the Gospel of Christ.   Also in 2 Timothy 1:8 says the same thing.  We
 must tell our friends about the Lord before it is too late.  I need to
 also, because I have many friends who if they were to die right now, would
 spend eternity in a place prepared for the devil and his angels.  Let's be
 witnesses to the world, Christians.
