"... I refuse to accept despair as the final response to the ambiguities of
history. I refuse to accept the idea that the "isness" of man's present
nature makes him morally incapable of reaching up for the eternal
"oughtness" that forever confronts him. 

I refuse to accept the idea that man is mere flotsom and jetsom in the
river of life unable to influence the unfolding events which surround him.
I refuse to accept the view that mankind is so tragically bound to the
starless midnight of racism and war that the bright daybreak of peace and
brotherhood can never become a reality. 

I refuse to accept the cynical notion that nation after nation must spiral
down a militaristic stairway into the hell of thermonuclear destruction. I
believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have the final word
in reality. This is why right temporarily defeated is stronger than evil
triumphant. 

I believe that even amid today's motor bursts and whining bullets, there is
still hope for a brighter tomorrow. I believe that wounded justice, lying
prostrate on the blood-flowing streets of our nations, can be lifted from
this dust of shame to reign supreme among the children of men. 

I have the audacity to believe that peoples everywhere can have three meals
a day for their bodies, education and culture for their minds, and dignity,
equality and freedom for their spirits. I believe that what self-centered
men have torn down, men other-centered can build up. I still believe that
one day mankind will bow before the altars of God and be crowned triumphant
over war and bloodshed, and nonviolent redemptive goodwill will proclaim
the rule of the land. 

"And the lion and the lamb shall lie down together and every man shall sit
under his own vine and fig tree and none shall be afraid." 

I still believe that we shall overcome. 

This faith can give us courage to face the uncertainties of the future. It
will give our tired feet new strength as we continue our forward stride
toward the city of freedom. When our days become dreary with low-hovering
clouds and our nights become darker than a thousand midnights, we will know
that we are living in the creative turmoil of a genuine civilization
struggling to be born..." 

--Martin Luther King, from his Nobel Prize Acceptance Speech
December 10, 1964 
Oslo, Norway 
