As told by a 2nd Lieutenant from an Air Force Base in Texas:

Every second lieutenant acquires embarrassing memories when he wears gold
bars; it seems to come with the job.The first time the Air Force sent me on
temporary duty by myself, I experienced probably the most embarrassing
moment in my life, which I tell here in hopes that other butter bars out
there won't make the same mistake. I was traveling from Wright-Patterson
AFB OH to Vandenberg AFB  CA one spring, and the flight scheduled me for a
two-hour layover in  the St. Louis MO airport. I decided to hit the snack
bar and  bought a  cup of coffee, a package of Oreos and a newspaper.

After giving the  cashier the nine bucks or so these items cost, I  scanned
the crowded  sitting area for a place to relax.  The lounge was crowded,
but there appeared to be a spot across from a fellow in a military uniform
of some sort.  "Great!" I thought, "another soldier.  Maybe he can tell me
about life in the forces.,, With my coffee on the right side of the table,
my newspaper on the left and my oreos in the center, I sat down before I
took my first close look at the man opposite me.

He was a Marine corps brigadier general -a mean-looking man with no hair,
an honest-to-God scar on his forehead and about six rows of ribbons,
including the Silver Star with a cluster.  To me, the general had horns,
fangs, a pitchfork and a long,  pointed tail as well. I was already
committed to using the table, but not wanting to bother the general, I
meekly squeaked out, "Good  morning, sir," before sitting down.

I had begun the paper's crossword puzzle and was making good progress when
I heard a peculiar rustling sound, much like the crinkling of cellophane.
I looked up out of the corner of my eye to discover the general had reached
across the center of the table, opened the package of Oreos, taken out  one
and was eating it.

Now, not having attended the Air Force Academy,  I was not familiar with
how to deal with the finer points of military etiquette, such as what to do
when a senior member of another service calmly rips off one of your
cookies.  Several responses came to mind, but none of these seemed entirely
appropriate. I realized that the honor of the Air Force was, in a small
way, at stake here.   I certainly couldn't let the general think I was a
complete weenie. Besides, at airport prices, one oreo is a significant
fraction of take home pay for a second lieutenant.

The only response I  could make was to reach across the center of the
table, open the opposite end of the package (trying not to notice that the
other end had mysteriously come open somehow), extract an Oreo and eat it
very, very thoroughly.  "There," I thought, "I've subtly shown the general
that these are my Oreos, and he should go buy his own."

Marines are known for many qualities, but subtlety is not among them. The
general calmly reached out for another Oreo and ate it. (By the way, the
general was licking the middles out first before eating the cookies.) Not
having said anything the first time, of course, I couldn't bring it up now.

 The only thing to do was to take another cookie for myself.  We wound up
alternating through the entire package.  For an instant our eyes met, and
there was palpable tension in the air, but neither of us said a word.
After I had finished the last Oreo, they announced something over the
public address system.

 The general got up, put his papers back into his briefcase, picked up the
now empty wrapper, threw it away, brushed the few crumbs neatly off the
table and left.  I sat there marveling at his gall and feeling very
foolish.

A few minutes later, they announced my flight.  I felt a great deal more
foolish when I finished my coffee, threw the cup away and lifted my
newspaper to reveal ... my Oreos! Today, two of us are running around the
Armed Forces telling the same story,  but only one of us has the punch
line.   And general, if you are reading this, get in touch with me and I
will be glad to send you a case of Oreos.
