              Beginning of Book VII from The Republic
                     (The Allegory of The Cave)
                             by: Plato
                   Translated by: Benjamin Jowett

[Socrates speaking to Glaucon]

And now, I said, let me show in a figure how far our nature is
enlightened or unenlightened: --Behold! human beings living in a
underground den, which has a mouth open towards the light and reaching
all along the den; here they have been from their childhood, and have
their legs and necks chained so that they cannot move, and can only
see before them, being prevented by the chains from turning round
their heads. Above and behind them a fire is blazing at a distance,
and between the fire and the prisoners there is a raised way; and you
will see, if you look, a low wall built along the way, like the screen
which marionette players have in front of them, over which they show
the puppets. 

I see. 
And do you see, I said, men passing along the wall carrying all sorts
of vessels, and statues and figures of animals made of wood and stone
and various materials, which appear over the wall? Some of them are
talking, others silent. 

You have shown me a strange image, and they are strange prisoners.

Like ourselves, I replied; and they see only their own shadows, or
the shadows of one another, which the fire throws on the opposite
wall of the cave? 

True, he said; how could they see anything but the shadows if they
were never allowed to move their heads? 

And of the objects which are being carried in like manner they would
only see the shadows? 

Yes, he said. 
And if they were able to converse with one another, would they not
suppose that they were naming what was actually before them?

Very true. 
And suppose further that the prison had an echo which came from the
other side, would they not be sure to fancy when one of the passers-by
spoke that the voice which they heard came from the passing shadow?

No question, he replied. 
To them, I said, the truth would be literally nothing but the shadows
of the images. 

That is certain. 

And now look again, and see what will naturally follow it' the
prisoners are released and disabused of their error. At first, when
any of them is liberated and compelled suddenly to stand up and turn
his neck round and walk and look towards the light, he will suffer
sharp pains; the glare will distress him, and he will be unable to see
the realities of which in his former state he had seen the shadows;
and then conceive some one saying to him, that what he saw before was
an illusion, but that now, when he is approaching nearer to being and
his eye is turned towards more real existence, he has a clearer
vision, -what will be his reply? And you may further imagine that his
instructor is pointing to the objects as they pass and requiring him
to name them, -will he not be perplexed? Will he not fancy that the
shadows which he formerly saw are truer than the objects which are now
shown to him?

Far truer. 
And if he is compelled to look straight at the light, will he not
have a pain in his eyes which will make him turn away to take and
take in the objects of vision which he can see, and which he will
conceive to be in reality clearer than the things which are now being
shown to him? 

True, he now [said.]
And suppose once more, that he is reluctantly dragged up a steep and
rugged ascent, and held fast until he 's forced into the presence
of the sun himself, is he not likely to be pained and irritated? When
he approaches the light his eyes will be dazzled, and he will not
be able to see anything at all of what are now called realities.

Not all in a moment, he said. 
He will require to grow accustomed to the sight of the upper world.
And first he will see the shadows best, next the reflections of men
and other objects in the water, and then the objects themselves; then
he will gaze upon the light of the moon and the stars and the spangled
heaven; and he will see the sky and the stars by night better than
the sun or the light of the sun by day? 

Certainly. 
Last of he will be able to see the sun, and not mere reflections of
him in the water, but he will see him in his own proper place, and
not in another; and he will contemplate him as he is. 

Certainly. 
He will then proceed to argue that this is he who gives the season and
the years, and is the guardian of all that is in the visible world,
and in a certain way the cause of all things which he and his fellows
have been accustomed to behold?

Clearly, he said, he would first see the sun and then reason about
him. 

And when he remembered his old habitation, and the wisdom of the den
and his fellow-prisoners, do you not suppose that he would felicitate
himself on the change, and pity them? 

Certainly, he would. 
And if they were in the habit of conferring honours among themselves
on those who were quickest to observe the passing shadows and to
remark which of them went before, and which followed after, and which
were together; and who were therefore best able to draw conclusions as
to the future, do you think that he would care for such honours and
glories, or envy the possessors of them? Would he not say with Homer,

Better to be the poor servant of a poor master, and to endure
anything, rather than think as they do and live after their manner?

Yes, he said, I think that he would rather suffer anything than
entertain these false notions and live in this miserable manner.

Imagine once more, I said, such an one coming suddenly out of the
sun to be replaced in his old situation; would he not be certain to
have his eyes full of darkness? 

To be sure, he said. 
And if there were a contest, and he had to compete in measuring the
shadows with the prisoners who had never moved out of the den, while
his sight was still weak, and before his eyes had become steady (and
the time which would be needed to acquire this new habit of sight
might be very considerable) would he not be ridiculous? Men would
say of him that up he went and down he came without his eyes; and
that it was better not even to think of ascending; and if any one
tried to loose another and lead him up to the light, let them only
catch the offender, and they would put him to death. 

No question, he said. 
This entire allegory, I said, you may now append, dear Glaucon, to
the previous argument; the prison-house is the world of sight, the
light of the fire is the sun, and you will not misapprehend me if
you interpret the journey upwards to be the ascent of the soul into
the intellectual world according to my poor belief, which, at your
desire, I have expressed whether rightly or wrongly God knows. But,
whether true or false, my opinion is that in the world of knowledge
the idea of good appears last of all, and is seen only with an effort;
and, when seen, is also inferred to be the universal author of all
things beautiful and right, parent of light and of the lord of light
in this visible world, and the immediate source of reason and truth
in the intellectual; and that this is the power upon which he who
would act rationally, either in public or private life must have his
eye fixed. 

I agree, he said, as far as I am able to understand you.

Moreover, I said, you must not wonder that those who attain to this
beatific vision are unwilling to descend to human affairs; for their
souls are ever hastening into the upper world where they desire to
dwell; which desire of theirs is very natural, if our allegory may
be trusted.
