Become drunk, O mind,
with the wine of bliss.
Fall upon the sacred earth
weeping and chanting the holy Name.
Fill space with your lion's roar,
whirling round and round,
both arms raised high,
giving away the mahamantra
to all conscious beings.
Transform limited desire
into the radiance of Krishna,
and swim night and day
in the wild sea of rapture.
The universe is now submerged
beneath waves of ecstatic love.


.
.
.


The sensitive mother presents various preparations of fish to her hungry
children -- plain and bland or rich and spicy, depending on their tastes
and their powers of digestion.  Just so, the Mother of the Universe
reveals various spiritual practices.  This child enjoys every one of Her
delicious dishes without exception.

Whether you follow the ideal of the Personal God or the impersonal Truth,
you will certainly realize the One Reality, provided that you experience
profound longing.  The same cake tastes sweet from every direction.

Place your devotion whole-heartedly at the service of the ideal most
natural to your being, but know with unwavering certainty that spiritual
ideals are expressions of the same supreme Presence.  Do not allow the
slightest trace of malice to enter your mind toward any manifestation of
God or toward any practitioner who attempts to live in harmony with that
Divine Manifestation.  Kali, Krishna, Buddha, Christ, Allah -- these are
all full expressions of the same indivisible Consciousness and Bliss. 
These are revelatory initiatives of Divine Reality, not manmade notions. 
Blessed is the soul who has known that all is one, that all jackals howl
essentially alike.

The ecstatic lover has burning faith in every Divine Manifestation -- as
formless Radiance, as various Forms or Attributes, as Divine Incarnations
like Rama and Krishna, and as the Goddess of Wisdom, who is beyond form
and formlessness, containing both in Her mystic Womb.

Meet as many adepts from various paths as you can.  Love these persons,
receive their initiations, and passionately practice their disciplines. 
But enter your own inner chamber of primordial awareness to enjoy
selfless peace and delight.

Everyone will attain God-consciousness and be liberated.  Some receive
their meal early in the morning, others at noon, still others not until
evening.  But none will go hungry.  Without any exception, all living
beings will eventually know their own true nature to be timeless
awareness.


	Sri Ramakrishna Paramahansa
