Colleges Aren't Producing Discriminating Readers

By JAMES SHAPIRO

Social historians reflecting upon the "culture wars" on American campuses in
the 1980s and 1990s will be hard-pressed to find any trace of those struggles
in the reading habits of college students. If the evidence offered by "The
Chronicle'"s monthly lists of "What They're Reading on College Campuses" over
the past two decades is any indication, tenured radicals have failed miserably
in their alleged efforts to transform the political orientation of their
students. The dire warnings of conservative critics are misplaced at best, and,
at worst, delusional.

Edith Uunila Taylor, a senior editor who has compiled these lists of students'
reading habits since 1971, made available to me unpublished lists that she has
also compiled of the top-10 campus best sellers for each calendar year.

Paging through these annual lists, I had to go back to 1979, to Marilyn 
French's "The Women's Room," to find a nonfiction feminist best seller; the
next-most-recent feminist citation was "Our Bodies, Ourselves", five years 
earlier. For a book about Native Americans, I had to go even further back: to
"Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee," in 1972. No nonfiction title about the
African-American experience -- other than Alex Haley's "Roots" in 1976 -- ever
made an annual top-10 list. Nonfiction books about race relations, gay rights,
or left-leaning politics were nowhere to be found.    

Even environmentalism barely broke through, with "50 Simple Things You Can Do
to Save the Earth," in 1990. No book of poetry has ever made its way to an
annual top-10 list; and the only two books in translation that I came across
since 1975 were Gabriel Garcia Marquez's "Love in the Time of Cholera," in
1989, and Umberto Eco's "The Name of the Rose", in 1984. 

If anything, the lists underscore what appear to be the deeply centrist, if not
conservative, values of the majority of American college students. A trilogy of
American conservatism made the campus best-seller lists -- Allan Bloom's "The
Closing of the American Mind" and E.D. Hirsch, Jr's "Cultural Literacy" in
1987, and William Bennett's "The Book of Virtues" in 1994. Books celebrating
corporate culture have done well, too, including "Iaccoca: An Autobiography; In
Search of Excellence: Lessons from America's Best-Run Companies;" and "The
One-Minute Manager," all in 1983, and "The Seven Habits of Highly Effective
People ," in both 1991 and 1992.

These choices not only indicate that the battle over what is taught in class 
has been largely insulated from what is read outside of it, but also suggest
that colleges today are doing a poor job of nurturing discriminating readers. 

By far the most popular author on campus since the top-10 lists were first
compiled has been the cartoonist Bill Watterson, whose books (such as favorites
"Calvin and Hobbes" and "Homicidal Psycho Jungle Cat") appeared on the annual
list 17 times from 1987 through 1996. Another cartoonist, Gary Larsen, comes
in second, having made the annual list nine times from 1985 through 1989, with
such winning titles as "Night of the Crash-Test Dummies" and "Bride of the Far
Side." Scott Adams, author of "The Dilbert Principle," seems poised to join the
select company of cartoonists. 

As one might expect, mass-market novelists have also held their own, with John
Grisham making the annual best-seller list nine times, and Tom Clancy and
Stephen King five times each. 

Curious about whether similar trends prevailed a generation ago (and convinced
that the reading habits of my generation would put those of more-recent
graduates to shame), I decided to compare the list of what we were reading on
campus in October 1977 with the list that appeared exactly 20 years later. The
results were chastening and a little depressing. In October 1977, the
top-selling book was "Passages," by Gail Sheehy, followed by Leon Uris's
"Trinity," J.R.R. Tolkien's "The Silmarillion", Wayne W. Dyer's "Your Erroneous
Zones," George Lucas's "Star Wars," Erma Bombeck's "The Grass Is Always Greener
Over the Septic Tank," James Herriot's "All Things Wise and Wonderful," Michael
Medved and David Wallechinsky's "What Really Happened to the Class of '65",
Judith Guest's "Ordinary People," and Red West's "Elvis: What Happened." Is
that what we were reading back then? Elvis? Erroneous zones? Darth Vader? 


Twenty years later, the reading habits of college students haven't changed all
that much. This past October's list offered a similar mix of popular novels,
humor and self-helpbooks, and celebrity biography. "Cold Mountain," by Charles
Frazier, and "Angela's Ashes," by Frank McCourt, topped the list, followed by
Jack Canfield, Mark Victor Hansen, and Kimberly Kirberger's "Chicken Soup for
the Teenage Soul," Stephen E. Ambrose's "Undaunted Courage," Mary Pipher's
"Reviving Ophelia," Monty Roberts's "The Man Who Listens to Horses," Maya
Angelou's "The Heart of a Woman," Andrew Morton's "Diana: Her New Life,"
Sebastian Junger's "The Perfect Storm," and "Chicken Soup for the Woman's
Soul," compiled by Jack Canfield "et al."

Some differences have crept in over the years, however. The most striking, if
this limited comparison is representative, is the superiority of the novels and
memoirs that students are now reading. At first glance, this trend is 
heartening, suggesting that students are reading more-demanding books. But on 
reflection, it becomes apparent that other trends may be at work.

In 1977, only seven of the top-10 best sellers on campus also made the
best-seller lists of "The New York Times." Now, the overlap between national
and campus best sellers is complete: Every one of the books that appeared on
"The Chronicle"'s list of titles in October 1997 also appeared that month on
the best-seller lists published in "The New York Times."

I asked Mrs. Taylor whether there were any trends that don't show up in "The
Chronicle"'s lists, and she told me that when she started keeping track of
reports from campus bookstores around the country, trends would begin on either
the East or West Coast and then make their way through the rest of the country.
Today, she said, that's no longer the case.

With more and more college bookstores owned by chains such as Follett's and
Barnes&Noble (which centralize their buying), the odds seem increasingly high
that the books that appear in campus stores all over the country -- especially
those most prominently displayed -- have been preselected as potential best
sellers and promoted as such by mainstream publishing houses.

The "Oprah" effect also has been felt in the campus bookstore: This past June,
for example, three of 10 titles on the monthly list of campus best sellers --
"The Rapture of Canaan, Stones from the River," and "She's Come Undone" -- made
the list after having been chosen for Oprah Winfrey's televised book club. 

But you can count the number of campus best sellers from small or alternative
publishing houses that have made "The Chronicle"'s lists on the fingers of one
hand. Students may dress differently, talk differently, and have attitudes
toward body piercing or sexuality that differ from those of their parents, but
when they buy books, they read pretty much what their parents are reading. 

It doesn't have to be this way, and it isn't the case in other cultural forms
about which students care, such as music. College alternative-music stations,
for example, have had a major impact on the fate of recordings that might
otherwise have failed to attract much notice on mainstream, commercial
stations. As a result, executives in the music business pay close attention to
the music that alternative stations play. I can't imagine people in trade
publishing paying the same kind of attention to student taste in "alternative"
contemporary fiction that falls outside of the mainstream. 

One difference, of course, is that a student disk jockey, intent on exposing
listeners to something new and different, can reach a large segment of the
campus population quite easily. It's much harder for a student who is
enthusiastic about a terrific new book to do the same.

That lesson was brought home to me quite sharply in an "Intro to the English
Major" class I taught two years ago, in which the students were responsible
for choosing the contemporary novel we would read. I assumed that they would
choose something from "The New York Times" paperback best-seller list that I
had given them. To my surprise, after hours of spirited debate, a persistent
student persuaded us to read what turned out to be a wonderful novel that only
she had heard of: "Sights Unseen," by Kaye Gibbons. The class wound up running
around town looking for scarce copies of the book, which at the time was
available only in hardcover, since the campus bookstore didn't have any in
stock.

So students could be much more influential in what their peers read. Why, for
example, does one find "staff picks" in better independent bookstores (and even
the superstores), but no "student picks" in campus bookstores? Since students
spend an awful lot of money in those stores, it might be worth ceding to them
some authority about what titles get prominently displayed. In any case, I'd
rather see "student picks" in the windows of campus bookstores than copies of
dreary scholarly monographs by faculty members. I feel the same about the
slighting of student advice in college libraries: Why can't more libraries set
aside an area where titles recommended by students (rather than by librarians
or faculty members) are displayed? By failing to do so, both campus bookstores
and libraries continue to engender tremendous passivity in students as readers.

One heartening sign that students are increasingly unwilling to have literary
fare served up without their having much say in the matter -- much like dorm
food -- is the establishment of a student-run, on-line review of books, "The
Yale Review of Books" (http://www.yale.edu/yrb). It's heartening to read that
its undergraduate editor in chief, Joey Fishkin, believes that "in the larger
cultural conversation about books being written and published right now, we
listen a lot and get very few words in edgewise. Some of the books published
today will be forgotten by the time we've graduated; others may find their way
into the college classroom. But thinking and writing and talking about them
before their fate is settled is too much fun to leave to the professional
literati."

It's too early to tell whether experiments such as this on-line review will be
shortlived, or whether they will make the book trade take notice. It may still
turn out that students will choose mainstream titles, but there's no way of
knowing whether they are actually choosing them or having those books chosen
for them, until students are given more of a chance to shape the literary
culture in which they live.

"James Shapiro is a professor of English and comparative literature at 
Columbia University. He writes regularly on publishing for" The Chronicle".
Copyright (c) 1998 by The Chronicle of Higher Education, http://chronicle.com

----

[is this below a real list of books that we can access?--connie ]

http:/che-data/articles.dir/art-44.dir/issue-30.dir/bestbooks.htm

Annual lists of best-selling books on campuses,</A 1971-1996, compiled by 
"The Chronicle"

---
