                             THE THREE TREES

          Once upon a mountain top, three little trees stood and
dreamed of what they wanted to become when they grew up.
          The first little tree looked up at the stars and said: 
"I want to hold treasure.  I want to be covered with gold and
filled with precious stones.  I'll be the most beautiful treasure
chest in the world!"
	  The second little tree looked out at the small
stream trickling by on it's way to the ocean.  "I want to be
traveling mighty waters and carrying powerful kings.  I'll be
the strongest ship in the world!"
	  The third little tree looked down into the valley below
where busy men and women worked in a busy town.  "I don't want
to leave the mountain top at all.  I want to grow so tall that
when people stop to look at me they'll raise their eyes to
heaven and think of God. I will be the tallest tree in the
world."
	  Years passed.  The rain came, the sun shone, and the
little trees grew tall. One day three woodcutters climbed the
mountain.
          The first woodcutter looked at the first tree and said,
"This tree is beautiful.  It is perfect for me."  With a swoop
of his shining axe, the first tree fell.
	  "Now I shall be made into a beautiful chest, I shall
hold wonderful treasure!" the first tree said.
          The second woodcutter looked at the second tree and
said, "This tree is strong.  It is perfect for me."  With a
swoop of his shining axe, the second tree fell.
	  "Now I shall sail mighty waters!" thought the second
tree. "I shall be a strong ship for mighty kings!"
    	  The third tree felt her heart sink when the last
woodcutter looked her way.  She stood straight and tall and
pointed bravely to heaven.
	  But the woodcutter never even looked up.  "Any kind
of tree will do for me."  He muttered.  With a swoop of his
shining axe, the third tree fell.
	  The first tree rejoiced when the woodcutter brought her to a
carpenter's shop.  But the carpenter fashioned the tree into a
feedbox for animals.
          The once beautiful tree was not covered with gold,
with treasure.  She was coated with saw dust and filled with hay
for hungry farm animals.
          The second tree smiled when the woodcutter took her
to a shipyard, but no mighty sailing ship was made that day.
Instead, the once strong tree was hammered and sawed into a
simple fishing boat. She was too small and too weak to sail to
an ocean, or even a river; instead she was taken to a little
lake.
          The third tree was confused when the woodcutter cut her
into strong beams and left her in a lumberyard.
          "What happened?"  The once tall tree wondered.  "All I
ever wanted was to stay on the mountain top and point to God..."
          Many many days and nights passed.  The three trees nearly
forgot their dreams.
	  But one night, golden starlight poured over the first tree
as a young woman placed her newborn baby in the feedbox.
          "I wish I could make a cradle for him." her husband
whispered.
         The mother squeezed his hand and smiled as the starlight
shone on the smooth and the sturdy wood.  "This manger is beautiful,"
she said.
          And suddenly the first tree knew he was holding the
greatest treasure in the world.
	  One evening a tired traveler and his friends crowded into
the old fishing boat.  The traveler fell asleep as the second tree
quietly sailed out into the lake.
          Soon a thundering and thrashing storm arose. The little
tree shuddered.  She knew she did not have the strength to carry
so many passengers safely through with the wind and the rain.
          The tired man awakened.  He stood up, stretched out his
hand, and said, "Peace." The storm stopped as quickly as it had begun.
	  And suddenly the second tree knew he was carrying the
king of heaven and earth.
          One Friday morning, the third tree was startled when her
beams were yanked from the forgotten woodpile.  She flinched as she
was carried through an angry jeering crowd.  She shuddered when soldiers
nailed a man's hands to her.
          She felt ugly and harsh and cruel.
          But on Sunday morning, when the sun rose and the earth
trembled with joy beneath her, the third tree knew that God's love had
changed everything.
          It had made the third tree strong.
          And every time people thought of the third tree, they
would think of God.
	  That was better than being the tallest tree in the world.
