IT’S AN HONOR TO KNOW YOU

A teacher in New York decided to honor each of her seniors in high school
by telling them the difference they each made.  She called each student to
the front of the class, one at a time. First she told each of them how they
had made a difference to her and the class.  Then she presented each of
them with a blue ribbon imprinted with gold letters which read, "Who I Am
Makes A Difference."  Afterwards the teacher decided to do a class project
to see what kind of impact recognition would have on the community.

She gave each of the students three more ribbons and instructed them to go
out and spread this acknowledgment ceremony.  Then they were to follow up
on the results, see who honored whom and report back to the class in about
week.

One of the boys in the class went to a junior executive in a nearby company
and honored him for helping him with his career planning.  He gave him a
blue ribbon and put it on his shirt. Then he gave him two extra ribbons and
said, "We're doing a class project on recognition, and we'd like you to go
out, find somebody to honor, give them a blue ribbon, then give them the
extra blue ribbon so they can acknowledge a third person to keep this
acknowledgment ceremony going.  Then please report back to me and tell me
what happened.”

Later that day the junior executive went in to see his boss, who had been
noted by the way, as being kind of a grouchy fellow. He sat his boss down
and told him that he deeply admired him for being a creative genius.  The
boss seemed very surprised. The junior executive asked him if he would
accept the gift of the blue ribbon and would he give him permission to put
it on him.  His surprised boss said, "Well, sure."  The junior executive
took the blue ribbon and placed it right on his boss's jacket above his
heart.  As he gave him the last extra ribbon, he said, "Would you do me a
favor?  Would you take this extra ribbon and pass it on by honoring
somebody else?  The young boy who first gave me the ribbons is doing a
project in school and we want to keep this recognition ceremony going and
find out how it affects people.

That night the boss came home to his 14 year old son and sat him down.  He
said, "The most incredible thing happened to me today.  I was in my office
and one of the junior executives came in and told me he admired me and gave
me a blue ribbon for being a creative genius.  Imagine.  He thinks I'm a
creative genius.  Then he put this blue ribbon that says "Who I Am Makes A
Difference" on my jacket above my heart.  He gave me an extra ribbon and
asked me to find somebody else to honor.  As I was driving home tonight, I
started thinking about whom I would honor with this ribbon and I thought
about you.  I want to honor you.  My days are really hectic and when I come
home, I don't pay a lot of attention to you.  Sometimes I scream at you for
not getting good grades in school and for your bedroom being a mess, but
somehow tonight, I just wanted to sit here and, well, just let you know
that you do make a difference to me.  Besides your mother, you are the most
important person in my life. You're a great kid and I love you!"

 The startled boy started to sob and sob, and he couldn't stop crying.  His
whole body shook.  He looked up at his father and said through his tears,
"I was planning on committing suicide tomorrow, Dad, because I didn't think
you loved  me.  Now I know you care.  This is the happiest day I've known."

The boss went back to work a changed man.  He was no longer a grouch but
made sure to let all his employees know that they made a difference.  The
junior executive helped several other young people with career planning and
never forgot to let them know they made a difference in his life.... one
being the boss' son.  And the young boy and his classmates learned a
valuable lesson.  Who you are DOES make a difference.



