From: TTU::MTO1716      "MARK T. ORR" 16-OCT-1998 13:03:07.99
To:   @GRAD,@JOURNAL
CC:
Subj: j: on Perry regressions and mindfulness practice

10-16-98   this is ~ 120 lines long

i had some insights about whats going on with my head wiht regards to
perry and the tears/fragility i have been feeling. short version is
that i think i am doing a perry regression from 7 to 3 to 5. i think
that this first part is going to be pretty tj b/c i have it mapped out
in my head. the end will prob be much more nf b/c its where i am now.

Perry 6: early this spring the realization really hit me that i can
choose to commit to something and work out of the Perry 5 stuff i had
been in for over year. i knew before then that this is what i had to
do but knowing it and learning it are two different things. the
knowing came from within, not from some model. that's why i spend so
much of the spring semester reading different books on Zen and
Buddhism. the most important ones were TNH's _peace is every step_ and
the Dalai Lama's _A Policy of Kindness_ but there were lots of others
as well. what i was seeing there was a practice or way of being that i
valued and would give me tools to deal with life as i saw it. in brief
how i understood these tools from teh reading was that by seeing what
is happening in front of me and letting go of expectations and demands
i could deal wiht the what was infront of me instead of all of the
crap that was separating me from reality. one of hte integral parts is
being able to see the needs and misconceptions in my percieving. then
having the courage to let go of those and see waht was there. All of
this reading was still perry 6 stuff though b/c i was seeing that i
needed to commit but the commitment wasnt there yet.

Perry 7: The day after my last final this spring (at UTK) i committed
to doing zazen (just sitting) five days a week. i began by sitting 20
minutes a day for two weeks then increased 5 minutes each week till i
got up to 40 minutes. after that i dropped back to 30 minutes which
was much more comfortable. What i was doing while sitting was letting
go of all of my worries and expectations of the day and just focused
on what was immediately in front of me, breathing. just following the
breathe for 30 minutes. When thoughts or feelings come up i worked on
letting them go. sometimes this was easy sometimes not so easy. i did
a lot of fighting being there. there were days when i woudl think 25
out of the 30 minutes but my butt was still on the zafu. when i say
letting go of thoughts and feelings, its qualitatively different than
supressing them. if i were to verbalize it it woudl sound like "i'm
thinking about this thing. i am intending to sit and follow my breath.
i will return to following my breath." as i did this through the
summer i became increasingly aware of myself and particularly my
breath throughout my day. also i worked on consciously choosing to
smile and be at peace where ever i was. i had several reminders, the
two biggest ones were walking down E corridor every day to get ice and
standing at the south fume hood making drying tubes. Those two events
in particluar were like hearing the bells they use in meditation
halls. my thought awareness changed as well. i became more aware of
the concept that i am just one of 6 billion people on this planet. no
more no less. seeing myself objectively as one part of a whole, no
greater no less. doing that helped me to remember to be aware of my
own needs, drives, and expectations which were clouding my perception
of hte world around me. my goal is/was to choose the more
honest/healthy thing when i saw it. that didnt always happen (:P) the
story of the man walking down the road and falling in the hole here
really applies. for the sake of completeness i guess i should include
the story. or at least sum it up

A man walks down the road and falls in a hole. The next day he walks
down the say road and falls in the same hole. the following day he
walks down the same road, sees the hole just as he falls into it. The
next day he goes down the same road, sees the hole and walks aroudn
it. The following day he walks down a different role and falls into a
hole......

how i see this applying to me is that i began seeing some of the
cloudedness that is in my life (the hole). when i see it sometimes i
still do the same things based on the cloudedness but see that i am
being clouded (seeing the hole but still falling in) then sometimes i
can make the healthier choice when i see it (walking aroudn teh hole).

that's pretty much where i was on this axis when i came back to tech.

P-3r (r is for regression) even before i got back but moreso since i
have been here i was thinking that meditation/mindfulness was a tool
that i could apply any situation and it would solve my problems if i
had enough courage to make the choice. in my head this was a very
dogmatic statement for my life and being back here w/ mentor people
who asked me about it i gave them mindfulness dogma.
mindfulness/awareness is cultivated by active meditation and practice
adn mindfulness/awareness will help you get through any situation.
this dogma has come out the most talking to andy and melissa. it also
was a major issue in the end of my relationship w/ MM. i was wanting
someone else who was committed to this same path. the reasons for
wanting this are several but i will do that later (my fingers are
already hurting from typing). i was/am also experiencing lots of
frustration and despair about not having other people around me
committed to this thing.

P-5r last friday (10/9/98) i started feeling really sad and
emotionally fragile. felt like i was going to shatter at any moment. i
curled up with my teddybear Rufus and sort of trembled adn slept. this
feeling of fragility and being just on top of tears has been pretty
constant for the last week. whenever i drop to even -1 i get tears
come up. it isnt hoards of tears but its a feeling of sadness and
grieving and tears do come. i have had a strong urge to run away from
people and life this week. also i dont think i have done zazen since
this started. the maddening thing is i dont see what the trigger is.
there arent any T statements taht trigger it. i cant see any external
stimulus that triggers it either. if i coudl find either one of these
then mindfullness would be a useful tool for dealign with it but i
dont see what it is i'm doing so there's nothign to dettach from. so
part of the tears are seeing that my committment doesnt solve all of
my problems and seeing that is pulling back all of the emotion that i
didnt experience when i did P-5 the first time. i had so much grieving
to do then i couldnt do it all w/o shutting it off. right now i think
i am grieving that my commitment isnt an universal solution.

What i am doing now

right now i am trying to experience the tears and sadness/grieving.
see waht it is and learn from it. not move it or push it away but
simply be wiht it. it would be useful i think if i would continue
zazen and mindfulness. of course tha is commitment to something taht
doesnt work 100% of the time bu its still incredibly useful.

feedback is welcome as well as reminders to be aware. i am ok with the
tears at this moment. last night elijah asked me how i was and i gave
him a waffle answer. i am hurting but i am ok with hurting.

connie if this is useful for the book you are welcome to it.

Thanks for reading
Love
mark

