

SPACETIME

(HIGHWAY and SPACETIME DIAGRAM programs) 

User's Manual

for the IBM PC/XT/AT

Edwin F. Taylor

Department of Physics
Massachusetts Institute of Technology

NOTE:  Introductory computer activity begins on page 3.

Send questions, comments, suggestions, inquiries to:

Spacetime Software
20 Davis ROAD
Belmont, MA 02178 USA

Draft of 3/18/88

Acknowledgments:  Glen Myers programmed the SPACETIME display for the 
IBM PC.  Eric Berman worked on early versions and programmed the Apple 
Macintosh version.  Significant portions of this User's Manual were 
adapted from the Macintosh User's Manual written by Eric Berman.

Copyright (c) 1988 by Edwin F. Taylor

Contents

1.  About SPACETIME, 1

2.  The HIGHWAY, 2
        Getting Started, 2
        The HIGHWAY Display, 2
        A Test Drive on the Highway, 3
        A Trip to Alpha Centauri, 3
        HIGHWAY Command Basics, 6

3.  The SPACETIME DIAGRAM, 8
        The Cursor, 9
        The F1:CONSTRUCT Menu, 9

4.  The SPLIT WINDOW, 10

5.  The Event and Object Tables, 11 

6.  Some Relativistic Effects, 11
        Lorentz contraction, 12
        Time stretching (time dilation), 12
        Twin paradox, 12
        Relative synchronization of clocks, 12
        Invariance of the speed of light, 13
        Addition of velocities, 13
        Doppler shift, 13

7.  Shortcuts and Power Uses, 14

Appendix A:  How to . . . , 15 
        (Commands listed by their actions)

Appendix B:  All the Commands, by Menu, 21
        Help (question mark key [?]), 21
        Keypad Commands:  HIGHWAY display, 21
        Keypad Commands:  SPACETIME DIAGRAM display, 22
        Command menus at the top of the screen, 23
        Menu F1: OBJECTS (HIGHWAY display), 23
        Preview:  F6: SELECT, 26
        Menu F1: CONSTRUCT (SPACETIME DIAGRAM display), 27
        Menu F2: WINDOWS, 29
        Menu F3: SETTINGS, 30
        Menu F4: TRANSFORM, 31
        Menu F5: FILES, 33
        Menu F6: SELECT, 34
        1.  About SPACETIME

SPACETIME is a collection of computer graphics utility programs designed 
to help students understand and develop an intuition for the laws of 
special relativity as the students analyze and solve exercises and take-
home projects and explore on their own. 

SPACETIME is made up of two separate but related displays:  the HIGHWAY 
display and the SPACETIME DIAGRAM display.  HIGHWAY shows a snapshot of 
a "cosmic superhighway" on which different objects move.  Objects in 
different lanes of the highway move at different speeds.  SPACETIME 
DIAGRAM shows a plot of position vs. time on which are displayed the 
locations of events as well as the trajectories of particles in 
spacetime.  The two displays are integrated so that they share data.  
This allows you to work with whichever mode is more convenient.  Both 
displays can be viewed at once using a split-screen feature.

The displays assume an initial acquaintance with relativity but are 
designed to be mostly self-explaining in operation.  A few minutes of 
personal demonstration should be enough to get a student started using 
the displays, with occasional consultation thereafter.  Sections 2 and 3 
below are intended to be a brief introduction to the HIGHWAY display.  
Section 6 introduces some relativistic effects.  The instructor may wish 
to photocopy these sections for student use.  Help screens in the 
program (available at any time by pressing the question mark key) give 
headlines of the operation of different commands.

Later sections of this user's manual are intended as a comprehensive 
description and reference for the instructor and experienced user.

SPACETIME was developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
(MIT) and funded through MIT Project Athena.  The programming was done 
under the supervision of Edwin F. Taylor, Senior Research Scientist in 
the Department of Physics, by MIT undergraduates working in the MIT 
Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program.  SPACETIME was originally 
developed on the IBM PC/XT/AT for use in an MIT physics course in 
special relativity.  Apple Computer, Inc.  provided funds to rewrite the 
program for the Apple Macintosht computer.  The Macintosh version is 
used in a continuing education class at Harvard University Extension 
School.  Both versions have been used in other schools. 

 A second program called COLLISION -- not described here -- helps the 
student analyze relativistic collisions, creations, transformations, 
decays, and annihilations.  

The IBM versions of these programs require an IBM PC or XT or AT with 
EGA or CGA color graphics, an 8087 or 80287 math co-processor, and more 
than 256k of memory.  There is a (slower!) version of SPACETIME that 
does not require a math co-processor.  At this writing, we are modifying 
the IBM version to run on the IBM PS/2 series of personal computers.  
The Macintosh version runs on any Macintosh computer with at least 512K 
of memory.  

2.  The HIGHWAY

Getting Started

The SPACETIME disk is self-booting.  Insert the SPACETIME disk in drive 
A.  If the computer is off, turn it on.  If the computer is already on, 
press at the same time the three keys Ctrl, Alt, and Del, then release 
them.   You will be instructed what to do next. 

The HIGHWAY Display

The first display is HIGHWAY.  The large blank area in the middle of the 
window can be thought of as a "cosmic superhighway" running from left to 
right across the screen.  Different lanes on the highway are for objects 
moving at different speeds.  Objects lying on the dashed horizontal line 
through the middle of the screen are on the "center strip" of the 
highway and do not move.  Objects above the center move to the right;  
the farther above the center, the faster they move.  Objects in the very 
top lane move to the right with the speed of light, and only light 
flashes (and neutrinos) can occupy this lane.

Objects below the center of the screen move to the left;  the farther 
below the center, the faster they move.  Objects in the very bottom lane 
move to the left with the speed of light, and only light flashes (and 
neutrinos) can occupy this lane.

The highway convention is sort of British:  vehicles drive on the left 
side.  But unlike the British convention slow lanes are near the center 
strip, fast lanes near the edge of the road.

A useful analogy for understanding what appears on the highway is to 
think of a movie of all the objects traveling along the highway.  At any 
given instant, you are looking at a single "still" of the movie.  As you 
change the time, you change movie stills.  You are going to learn how to 
make such movies and how to step time forward and backward through the 
stills of the movie.


A vertical ruler at the left of the screen shows b  (Greek "beta"), the 
velocity as a fraction of the speed of light:   b  = v/c.   b  goes from 
+1 at the top (light moving to the right) through 0 at the center to -1 
at the bottom (light moving to the left).  Notice that this is not a 
linear scale;  equal vertical lane separations do not correspond to 
equal changes in b .  This is done so that more of the "interesting" 
velocities near b = v/c =1 can fit on the screen.

(On the screen there is another scale labeled g next to the b scale.  
Ignore this second scale for now.)

A Test Drive on the Highway

Before learning about the details of the highway display, take a quick 
spin to get the feel of it.  Here are some suggestions.

Press the letter C to create a clock on the highway.  A cursor in the 
shape of a cross appears superimposed on the "reference clock" in the 
center of the screen.  Find the up and down arrow keys at the right of 
the keyboard.   Strike the up-arrow key ten to twenty times to move the 
cursor into a rightward-moving velocity lane.  Press the ENTER key.  
This creates the clock at the position of the cursor.  The number in the 
clock rectangle is the time reading of the clock.  

Place a rod along the center strip:   Press R, then strike the right or 
left arrow key five to ten times to move the cursor along the center 
strip.  Press the ENTER key.

Now create another rod in one of the moving lanes by pressing R and 
moving the cursor, this time using both the up-down arrows and the 
right-left arrows.  The whole screen is available.  Press ENTER.  Notice 
that the rod in a moving lane is shown to be shorter than the rod at 
rest in the center lane.  This is called Lorentz contraction.

Place a flash of light by pressing F.  For a flash the up and down arrow 
keys move the cursor only between the two outer fastest lanes.  Light 
can move only with the speed of light!  But it can move either to the 
right (top lane) or to the left (bottom lane).  Position the cursor 
wherever you want in one of these two lanes and press ENTER.

The present display is a snapshot of the highway at zero time (t = 
0.00).  Now step time forward:  strike and release the up-arrow.  Strike 
it many times.  Watch the objects move, each according to the speed of 
its lane.   Read the time in the upper right corner of the screen.  Try 
stepping time backward using the down arrow.

This is the basic operation of the HIGHWAY display. 
 

A Trip to Alpha Centauri

Now take a longer trip and learn some more about the HIGHWAY display.

The star nearest to our sun is Alpha Centauri, about  4 light-years 
distant from us.  Assume that the distance units on the display are 
light-years and the time units on the clocks are years.

You need to clear the screen.  If there are objects already on the 
screen, clear the screen as follows:  Press function key F5.  A menu 
will drop down from the top of the screen.  Press the down-arrow until 
the highlight is over the command New.  Press the ENTER key.  A box will 
ask if you want to "Save changes before clearing?"  Press N for no.  
This will give a clear screen.

1.  Create Alpha Centauri.  The startup screen shows the "reference 
clock" in the center.  This clock represents the Earth.  Place a second 
clock -- representing Alpha Centauri -- on the center strip (b = 0) at a 
distance of 4 light-years to the right of the Earth.  [Press C, move 
cross hair cursor to right with right-arrow key to the position x=4, 
press ENTER.]  

2.  Create Shuttle.  Now prepare the shuttle for the trip to Alpha 
Centauri.  Press S (for Shuttle) and use the up-arrow to move the cursor 
straight up onto the highway.  This time watch the information at the 
bottom of the screen;  it shows the position and lane-speed at the 
location of the cursor.  Continue pressing the up-arrow to place the 
cursor at the position of the earth (x = 0) and in a lane moving to the 
right with 0.9 the speed of light (b =  v/c = 0.9) as shown at the 
bottom of the screen.  Press ENTER to create the shuttle. 

3.  Start toward Alpha Centauri.  Step time forward by striking the up-
arrow a few times.  Watch the shuttle move toward Alpha Centauri.  (You 
are standing on the center strip;  you do not move across the screen.)  

4.  Shuttle details.  We want details of the shuttle's position in order 
to line it up with Alpha Centauri.  Get shuttle details this way:  Press 
function key F6.  Labels will appear on the objects.  Press S to select 
the shuttle.  A box will be drawn around the shuttle to show it is 
selected.  Then press the letter i for "information."   Across the 
bottom of the screen will appear details of the shuttle position, speed, 
and the reading on its clock.  Leave this information line in place as 
you move the shuttle toward Alpha Centauri.

5.  Time steps.  You can take big time steps forward and backward using 
the PgUp and PgDn keys at the right of the up-down arrow keys.  (See 
diagram below.)  You can take little time steps forward and backward 
using the Home and End keys at the left of the up-down arrow keys.  Or 
you can continue to take regular steps with the up-arrow and down-arrow 
keys themselves.   (The right and left arrow keys move the screen right 
or left but do not change the time.)
 

6.  Arrive at Alpha Centauri.  Keep changing time until the shuttle is 
approximately lined up with Alpha Centauri (when its position is x=4 as 
shown at the bottom of the screen).   If the lineup with Alpha Centauri 
is not perfect, never mind.

7.  Turn the Shuttle around.  Now change the lane of the shuttle to a 
lane moving to the left, so it can head home.  Program the shuttle by 
pressing the letter P.  A cross-hair cursor will appear at the position 
of the shuttle.  Move the cursor down with the down-arrow key until it 
is in a lane below the center strip with b = v/c = -0.9 (note minus 
sign).  When you get to the correct lane, press ENTER. 

8.  Arrive back at earth.  Step time forward again with the up-arrow key 
or PgUp key to bring the shuttle back to Earth (x=0).

Welcome the shuttle home.  You were standing on the center strip and did 
not move!

9.  Who is younger?  Read the number on the Earth clock and the number 
on the shuttle clock.  These are the number of years that have passed 
for each clock.  Who is younger:  the shuttle pilot or the stay-at-home 
twin?  This is called the Twin Paradox.  For a further analysis of the 
Twin Paradox, see Section 6 below.

If you have time:
10.  Start over again.  Reset time to zero (t = 0) by pressing the zero 
key (0) at the top of the keyboard.

11.  Climb onto the shuttle.  Be sure the shuttle is selected -- has a 
box around it.  [If not, press F6, then S.]  Then jump to the shuttle by 
pressing the letter J. 
 
You are now riding on the shuttle.  With respect to you the shuttle is 
at rest, so the shuttle is in the center of the screen.  The Earth is 
lined up with you but below you, in a leftward-moving lane.  Alpha 
Centauri is in the same lane as the Earth, but farther to the right.  
Earth and Alpha Centauri are moving in your rest frame;  therefore the 
distance between them is contracted, just like the length of a moving 
rod is contracted.

12.  Ride the shuttle out and back.  Now strike the up-arrow to "replay 
the movie" of the earlier trip to Alpha Centauri and back to Earth, this 
time while riding on the shuttle.  Keep striking the up-arrow;  the 
shuttle will turn around automatically.  Yahoo!

Physics notes:  

1.  The units used to measure time and space may be arbitrarily chosen 
by the user.  The only constraint is that light moves 1 unit of distance 
in 1 unit of time.  Hence, consistent units might be years of time and 
light-years of distance, or minutes of time and light-minutes of 
distance (one light-minute = the distance that a flash of light moves in 
one minute), or meters of distance and meters of light-travel time (one 
meter of light-travel time = the time it takes for a light flash to move 
one meter), etc.  In this way, the scale of events (space travel or 
particle collisions) is controlled by the operator.

2.  Immediately to the right of the velocity scale is a second scale 
that gives the value g  (Greek "gamma").  This is the factor by which 
moving clocks appear to run slow and by which moving rods appear to be 
contracted along their direction of motion. 

 
g  goes from the value infinity at the top of the screen, through the 
value 1 at the center, to the value infinity again at the bottom of the 
screen.  (g is always positive.)  

3.  While riding on the shuttle, you may have noticed that the Earth 
clock has a different reading than the clock on Alpha Centauri.  When 
these clocks are both at rest on the center strip, they do have the same 
reading -- they are synchronized with one another.  [Jump to the Earth 
clock to verify this -- press F6, then A, then J.]  The fact that 
separated clocks at rest read the same time but the identical clocks in 
a moving lane do not read the same time is called the relative 
synchronization of clocks.  For most people this is the relativistic 
effect hardest to understand.  For more on relative synchronization of 
clocks, see Section 6 below.  

4.  We cannot run time backward in real life.  This is a reminder that 
HIGHWAY does not show events as they occur, even in principle.  Rather 
it replays data gathered from remote locations, transported to a central 
information processing facility, and assembled into a picture-by-picture 
animation, which can be run backward or forward in time at our pleasure. 

HIGHWAY Command Basics

If you have taken the two trips described above, you have used many of 
the most important commands in HIGHWAY.  In this section you will learn 
some more general features of HIGHWAY commands.  Appendix B contains a 
complete description of all commands.  Appendix A gives quick 
instructions on how to carry out various procedures.  

First you need to know about help screens.

Help (question mark key [?])

At almost any time you can obtain on-screen help about the commands by 
pressing the question mark key [?] on the keyboard.  When no menu is 
down, you will obtain a general help screen.  When a menu is down, you 
will see a summary of the commands on that menu. 

Keypad Commands:  HIGHWAY

Most of the time the bottom line of the HIGHWAY screen reads, in part: 


This refers to commands entered using the keypad at the right of the 
screen.  The keypad at the right of the keyboard is NEVER used to enter 
numbers in these programs.  Enter numbers using the keys across the TOP 
of the keyboard.  If the right-hand keypad does not work as described 
here, strike the Num Lock key above the keypad;  it may have been 
pressed by mistake. 

Change time using the up arrow and down arrow keys:  up-arrow for a step 
forward in time, down-arrow for a step backward in time.  (See diagram 
below.)  The time step for the up-down arrows is 0.1 unit in the current 
frame of reference.  Use the PgUp and PgDn keys to step forward or 
backward by one full unit of time respectively.  Use the Home and End 
keys to step forward or backward by the smaller 0.01 unit of time 
respectively.  These eight keys allow you to go to any given time with 
two-decimal-place accuracy.   (You can set time to an accuracy of 0.0001 
unit using the Change (T)ime command in the F3:SETTINGS menu.) 

Right arrow and left arrow keys are used to move the screen display to 
the right or left, respectively.  These commands do not change the 
relative positions of objects or the time, they simply allow you to look 
at a different portion of the highway. 

As you change time, objects may move off of the visible portion of the 
screen.  When this happens a little arrow is placed at the edge of the 
screen pointing to the off-screen object, with a label:  CL for clock, 
RD for rod, FL for flash, SH for shuttle.  (If more than one off-screen 
object is in the same lane, these labels may overlap.)  To bring an 
object back on-screen, either change the time or move the screen in the 
correct direction to bring the object back into sight. 

Command menus at the top of the screen

Across the top of the screen are titles for the pull-down menus.  These 
menus contain most of the commands used to manipulate the display.  
Commands are grouped by function, so filing operations can be found in 
the menu titled F5:FILES, etc.  Pull down a menu by pressing the 
corresponding function key (labeled F with a digit).  Commands printed 
in solid color in the menu are executable at the current point in the 
program, while commands printed in "gray" do not presently apply and 
therefore cannot be chosen.  

There are two ways to execute a menu command.  (1) Note that one menu 
item is highlighted.  Use the up and down arrow keys to move this 
highlight to the command you wish to execute.  Then press ENTER to 
execute that command.  (2) Some of the commands have one letter in 
parenthesis (for example Change (T)ime).  Press that letter on the 
keyboard (for example T) to execute the corresponding command.  These 
command letters in parenthesis will execute at any time, even when the 
menu is not pulled down.  This means that once you have learned the most 
common commands, you do not need to use the menus for these commands.  
The menus then serve as reminders for the common commands, as well as 
the only way to execute commands that do not have a letter equivalent.

A reminder of the two ways to execute a command is printed at the bottom 
of every page of this manual.  

Retract the menu by pressing the Esc key or the spacebar or the function 
key for the menu.  Pressing another function key calls up the 
corresponding alternative menu.  You can also call up an adjacent menu 
by pressing the right or left arrow key while a menu is displayed. 

SELECT (F6):   Sometimes it is necessary to perform some operation on an 
object, such as jumping to it or deleting it.  In order to specify which 
object you want the operation to affect, you must first select it.  To 
select an object, press function key F6.  All objects on the screen will 
be labeled with letters.  Press the keyboard letter of the object you 
wish to select.  The selected object will have a box drawn around it.  
Then you can carry out the desired operation on that object.  There is 
no harm in leaving an object selected while you do other things;  the 
box around the object reminds you that it remains selected in case you 
want to carry out an operation on it.

EVENTS:  Besides objects, HIGHWAY can also display events.  An event has 
not only a position but also a time of happening.  Examples of possible 
events:  a collision, the emission of a flash of light, or a coincidence 
(the place and time at which two objects have the same position).  An 
event is shown as a line that stretches vertically from top to bottom 
across the entire highway.  The event is displayed only at the time at 
which the event occurs.  It will reappear whenever the same time 
reoccurs in that frame (and at the correct time in another frame).  When 
you are stepping the time, the clock will automatically stop at the time 
of every event, even if the event occurs between time steps.

Events are numbered E1, E2, E3, and so on.  The event E0 (event number 
zero) is a special one:  by definition it occurs at t = 0 and at x = 0 
in all reference frames.  Event E0 is called "the reference event" 
because it is the "starting gun" from which clocks are synchronized in 
every reference frame.  Event E0 is automatically entered in every 
HIGHWAY display.

You can create an event at an object by selecting that object (using 
function key F6 and entering the letter of the object), then pressing 
the letter E.  Erase an event by selecting it using the function key F6, 
entering the number of the event, then pressing the Del key.  (On the 
HIGHWAY display no box or other symbol shows that an event has been 
selected.)
    

Physics note: The vertical separation of objects by velocity on the 
display is actually just for analysis;  in reality all these objects are 
moving along a single line, a single dimension in space.  We separate 
them vertically Ä and artificially Ä on the screen in order to analyze 
their relative motions without screen clutter.  Actual motion along a 
common single line means that an observer can step from one object to 
another, at the same position but moving at a different speed, without 
crossing wide lanes of traffic.   Representing an event as a vertical 
line across the entire highway reminds us of the unreality of the 
vertical separation in the display.  An event does occur at the time at 
which it is displayed, but at a single point on the common line of 
motion.
 
3.  The SPACETIME DIAGRAM

The second important display in SPACETIME is the SPACETIME DIAGRAM 
display.  
SPACETIME DIAGRAM provides an alternative way to display events and 
positions of objects.  It is a coordinate system whose horizontal axis 
represents the position of an event or object and whose vertical 
position represents the time at which the event occurs.  The big 
advantage of SPACETIME DIAGRAM is that you can view on one screen events 
that occur at different times as well as at different places. 

To bring up this display, type D or highlight the Spacetime (D)iagram 
command in the F2:WINDOWS  menu and press ENTER.  A window with two 
labeled axes will appear and occupy most of the screen.  

A point on the spacetime diagram specifies the position and the time 
(where and when) of an event.  An event is shown as a numbered dot on 
the spacetime diagram.  All distances and times are measured relative to 
the "reference event," the event labeled "0" where the two axes cross 
(x=0 and t=0).

A worldline traces out the trajectory of an object through spacetime.  
Each event (each point) on a worldline corresponds to the position of an 
object at the time the object was there.  Objects in the Highway window 
appear as worldlines in the Spacetime Diagram window.  (If you choose 
not to have worldlines displayed, toggle the Worldlines on command in 
the F3:SETTINGS menu.)  

The dashed line across the middle of the screen represents a line of 
simultaneity for the time t ("now") in the current reference frame.  All 
events that occur at the current time t in this frame will lie on this 
dashed line.  (The value of the current time in this frame is displayed 
at the upper right of the screen.) 

One way to change time in SPACETIME DIAGRAM is to press T, press the up-
down arrows to go to the desired time, then press ENTER.  For big time 
steps, press T and use the PgUp and PgDn keys.  For small time steps, 
press T and use the Home and End keys.  Alternatively, after pressing T, 
you can type in the value of the desired time and press ENTER.

The Cursor

A cross-hair cursor resides on the screen.  This cursor is used to 
create event-points on the spacetime diagram.  The line across the 
bottom of the screen tells you the current x and t coordinates of the 
cursor.  You can move the cursor around the spacetime diagram using the 
keypad at the right of the keyboard.  Press the arrow keys for right-
left and up-down steps.    Diagonal steps are accomplished using the 
"diagonal" keys:  PgUp, PgDn, Home, and End.  (See figure below.)  The 
steps are 0.25 unit.  For smaller steps of 0.01 unit, hold down the 
SHIFT key while pressing the arrow or diagonal keys.  For still smaller 
steps of 0.001 unit, hold down the Caps Lock key while pressing the 
arrow or diagonal keys.

Once you position the cursor, create an event by pressing the letter E.

The F1:CONSTRUCT Menu

The Left-hand menu at the top of the screen is now called F1:CONSTRUCT 
and has different commands in SPACETIME DIAGRAM than it did in HIGHWAY.  
The first command in the menu is Draw (E)vent.  To create an event on 
the screen, move the cursor to the desired point on the screen and press 
E (or highlight Draw: (E)vent on the F1:CONSTRUCT menu and press ENTER).  

All of the remaining commands in the F1:CONSTRUCT menu (except Help and 
Close) require the use of the F6:SELECT command.  Press F6 and then 
press the letter of the object or the number of the event you wish to 
select.  When you select an event, a box appears around that event on 
the spacetime diagram.  When you select an object, a box appears around 
the intersection of the worldline of that object with the dashed line of 
simultaneity.  

To connect two events with a straight line, press F6:SELECT and select 
one of the events by number, then press F6:SELECT again and select the 
second event by number.  (The order of selection is not important.)  Now 
use the (C)onnect command to draw a line between the two events.  

A number and letter appears next to the connect line.  The number is the 
spacetime interval that relates the two events.  The letter 'T' denotes 
a timelike interval, 'L' denotes a lightlike interval, and 'S' denotes a 
spacelike interval.

Physics note:  The invariant interval is a number relating two events 
which has the same value when computed using the space and time 
coordinates of any laboratory or rocket reference frame -- hence the 
descriptor "invariant."   If the interval is timelike (label T), then a 
clock traveling between the two events will read an elapsed time equal 
to the interval.  If the interval is spacelike (label S), then there 
exists a frame in which the two events occur at the same time;  in this 
frame the distance between the two events is equal to the interval.  If 
the interval is lightlike (label L), then only light can travel fast 
enough to get from one event to another and the interval has the value 
zero.  See any introductory relativity textbook for more than this 
reminder.

To reduce screen clutter, you may want to delete the interval labels 
from connect lines.  To do so, toggle the Interval on command in the 
F3:SETTINGS menu .

The Light(K)one command allows you to place a "lightcone" through any 
numbered event.  (We apologize for using the letter K, but the letter C 
is already taken by the create-Clock command.)  A lightcone consists of 
the worldlines of light flashes converging on the event from below and 
diverging from the event above.  First select the event using F6, then 
press K (or highlight this command and press ENTER). 

The Hyper(B)ola command allows you to place an invariant hyperbola 
through any numbered event in the same manner as for the lightcone 
above.   An invariant hyperbola is the locus of all points occupied by 
the given event when viewed from all possible rocket frames.  Select the 
event using F6, then press B (or highlight this command and press 
ENTER).

The (DEL)ete Object/Event command allows you to delete an object or 
event by selecting it using F6, then pressing the Del key (or 
highlighting this command and pressing ENTER).  When you delete an 
event, all other constructions associated with the event (connect lines, 
lightcones, hyperbolas) are deleted as well.

delete Connect.  To delete a connect line, use F6 to select in sequence 
each of the two events at the end of the line (which event you select 
first does not matter) and then highlight this command and press ENTER.  
(There is no single-letter key that invokes this command.)

To delete a light cone or hyperbola, use F6 to select the event through 
which the lightcone or hyperbola passes, then highlight the delete 
Lightcone or delete Hyperbola command and press ENTER.  (There is no 
single-letter key that invokes these commands.)

4.  SPLIT WINDOW

Sometimes it is desirable to view both the Highway and Spacetime Diagram 
displays simultaneously.  SPACETIME has a command Split (W)indow in the 
F2:WINDOWS menu which allows both windows to be displayed at the same 
time.  The screen is redrawn with the HIGHWAY on top and SPACETIME 
DIAGRAM below, separated by a thick line. 

Now change time using the up-down arrow keys.  Objects move along the 
highway;  the spacetime diagram scrolls so that the line of simultaneity 
stays always in the center of the SPACETIME window.  (For larger time 
steps, use the PgUp-PgDn keys,  for smaller time steps, use the Home-End 
keys.   You can also set the time directly using the Change (T)ime 
command.)

You can adjust the position of the thick divider line by holding down 
the SHIFT key, pressing the up or down arrow keys to move the  thick 
line to the desired position, and then pressing ENTER.  The (V)iew Lanes 
command in the F3:SETTINGS menu can be used to uncover portions of the 
highway which may be obscured:  after pressing V, use the arrow keys to 
move the highway up and down, then press ENTER.

SPLIT WINDOW is intended as a summary replay of what has been 
constructed in the HIGHWAY and SPACETIME DIAGRAM displays.  Many of the 
usual commands cannot be executed in SPLIT WINDOW.  These unexecutable 
commands are printed in gray in the menus.  To execute these gray 
commands, you must go to the HIGHWAY window or the SPACETIME DIAGRAM 
window.

5.  Event and Object Tables

The event table provides numerical values for the space and time 
coordinates of all events in the current frame of reference.  The event 
table also lists the times of changes in shuttle velocity and the values 
of that velocity before and after each change as measured in its current 
frame.
  
The object table shows the numerical value of position, velocity, and 
gamma (time-stretch factor) for all objects.  In addition, the object 
table has entries for the length of every rod and the time reading on 
every clock and on the shuttle in the current frame. 

Call up the event or object table by pressing function key F2 to call 
the WINDOW menu.  Use the down-arrow to highlight the name of the table 
you wish to see;  press ENTER.  (There is no one-letter command to call 
these tables.)

You can enter notes of up to 25 characters each to describe events and 
objects appearing in the two tables.  Add a note to any entry by using 
the arrow keys to move the cursor to the point where you want the note 
to begin, then type the note.  The Del key erases the current letter;  
the backspace key (the key in the top row of the keyboard showing a left 
arrow) erases the letter to the left of the cursor.  The notes you enter 
in the tables will be saved if you save the display.  If you delete an 
event or an object and then create it again, any previous note about 
that event or object will be lost.

If you wish to print either table, call it up and press function key 
F10.

6.  Some Relativistic Effects

In this section we show how SPACETIME illustrates several effects of 
special relativity.  These effects are only briefly described and are 
not proved here;  the displays merely illustrate them.  Moreover, we 
give only one or two cases of each effect -- SPACETIME can demonstrate 
these effects in many other ways.

We assume that the user knows how to make simple constructions and 
manipulations using SPACETIME;  no such specific directions are given in 
this section.

Users should understand that these demonstrations do not prove the 
fundamental theory of special relativity:  the computer is programmed to 
model this theory.  (Of course if the theory were inconsistent, that 
might make difficulties for us in programming the displays.  Programming 
these displays was difficult, but not because relativity is 
inconsistent!)

Lorentz contraction
Lorentz contraction is the apparent reduction of length of a moving 
object along its direction of motion.  In HIGHWAY, create a rod on the 
center strip, where velocity is zero in the current frame.  Then create 
a second rod in a moving lane.  The moving rod is shown shorter in 
length from right to left than the rod at rest (but the same width from 
top to bottom).  The factor by which the length is shorter is gamma (g), 
the same factor by which moving clocks run slow (time stretching, see 
next item).  You can read the value of gamma directly off of a scale at 
the left of the HIGHWAY display.

Another way to illustrate Lorentz contraction is to create two objects 
(such as clocks) in the same lane.  The distance between these two 
clocks will change as you jump between them and objects in other lanes.

Caution:  When a clock string is placed in or moved to a fast lane, some 
clocks are omitted to prevent overlap of the images.  The need for this 
results from Lorentz contraction, but the resulting apparent distance 
between adjacent clocks in the string does not correctly follow Lorentz 
contraction.

Time stretching (time dilation)
"Moving clocks run slow." is the cocktail-party summary of time 
stretching.  ("Dilation" is another word for "stretching.")  A more 
careful way to say it is this: "Let a uniformly moving clock pass a 
string of synchronized clocks at rest.  Set the moving clock to read the 
same as some 'initial' clock in the string as the two pass each other.  
Then as this moving clock passes an observer standing on a stationary 
clock farther along the string, the reading on the moving clock will be 
less than the reading on the stationary clock.  The farther along the 
string, the proportionately farther behind will the moving clock read 
compared with the stationary clock in the string."  (Whew!)

Start with a new screen and create a clock string on the center strip.  
Now create a series of clocks in different lanes but all initially lined 
up vertically above and below the reference clock in the middle of the 
screen.  Now press the up-arrow key and watch the different clocks move 
and change time.  Notice that the fastest-moving clocks have the 
smallest elapsed time reading.  (If you create a moving clock anywhere 
but directly above or below the reference clock, the initial reading of 
the moving clock will be different from zero.  This is due to the 
relative synchronization of clocks -- see below.)  

Twin paradox
"One twin stays at home on earth, the other twin travels at high speed 
to a distant star and returns.  When the twins stand side by side after 
the return, the traveled twin will be younger than the stay-at-home 
twin."  That is not a paradox;  it is a true statement.  Carry out the 
Trip to Alpha Centauri in Section 3 above to experience this result. 
 
The supposed paradox is often stated this way.  "Relativity says that 
all motion is relative.  Therefore who is to say which twin stayed at 
home and which did the traveling?  Looked at from the point of view of 
the rocket twin, the earth twin zooms away and later returns.  Therefore 
the earth twin should be younger than the rocket twin.  But when they 
stand side by side, each twin cannot be younger than the other one.  
Paradox!"

The paradox can be resolved in various ways that all boil down to a 
single realization:  only one twin turns around.  Turning around 
requires acceleration.  There is no uncertainty about which twin is 
slammed against the bulkhead of the spaceship as it turns around!  The 
change of reference frames during turnaround can lead to an explanation 
of every detail of the twin "paradox."

Relative synchronization of clocks
Create a clock string along the zero-speed medium strip of HIGHWAY.  
Each clock has the same reading.  Now create an object in some other 
lane and jump to it.  As observed from this other object, different 
clocks in the moving clock string have different readings.  This effect 
is called the relative synchronization of clocks.  The relative 
synchronization of clocks is the single most difficult effect in special 
relativity for most people to understand.  Einstein's famous train 
paradox presents simply and concretely the essential features of 
relative synchronization of clocks.  Look it up in any relativity book 
or call up the existing display TRAINE from the Files menu. 

Invariance of the speed of light
As you jump from object to object in different lanes of HIGHWAY, the 
outer lanes are always just as far away on either side as they were when 
the display was first shown.  No matter how fast you are going with 
respect to the original reference clock, the edge of the highway remains 
the same distance from you.  A curious highway!  Yet a highway that 
reflects one of Einstein's fundamental assumptions:   The speed of light 
has the same value in every frame, no matter what (uniform) motion this 
frame has with respect to other frames.  This is called the Principle of 
the Invariance of the Speed of Light.   In HIGHWAY, the vertical 
distance from the center represents lanes of different speeds, and the 
fastest lanes in either direction are occupied only by light (and other 
zero-mass particles such as neutrinos).  Hence no matter what your 
relative velocity, these fastest lanes are represented at the same 
velocity-separation from you.  That is why the program will allow you to 
select a light flash but will not let you jump to it.  
        
Addition of velocities
In HIGHWAY, create a clock moving to the right with half the speed of 
light relative to you and jump to it.  Now create a second clock moving 
to the right with half the speed of light relative to you on the first 
clock and jump to the second clock.  Now create a third clock moving to 
the right with half the speed of light relative to you on the second 
clock and jump to the third clock.

Will you now be moving 0.5 + 0.5 + 0.5 = 1.5 of the speed of light 
relative to the original frame?  No!  Each velocity jump will increase 
speed by 0.5 with respect to the current frame.  However, with respect 
to the previous frame the increase is not so great.  This outcome is 
required to assure that no object moves faster than the speed of light 
with respect to any frame, as demanded by relativity.  If you use the 
HIGHWAY display and try three jumps of b = v/c = 0.5 each, you will find 
that you are moving at a speed of 0.929 that of light with respect to 
the original frame.  (Figure at the lower left of the screen.)  For more 
detail on this subject, look up the law of addition of velocities in any 
relativity text. 

A summary statement of this result is that "velocities do not add."  
This means that they do not add in the simple way we are accustomed to.  
But there is a straightforward "law of addition of velocities" in 
special relativity from which the above results can be predicted.

Doppler shift
Create a beacon in a fast lane on the HIGHWAY display.  A beacon is a 
clock that emits two light flashes, one in each direction, every unit of 
its own time, starting at zero time.  Advance time and notice how the 
light flashes are crowded together in the direction in which the beacon 
is moving.  In contrast, light flashes traveling in the direction 
opposite to the beacon's direction of motion are spread out.  Someone 
standing at rest on the center strip of the highway will receive the 
crowded-together flashes in rapid sequence.  Another median-strip 
observer looking in the opposite direction will receive the stretched-
out flashes with a greater separation in time.  (Remember, the vertical 
separation in HIGHWAY is a convenient fiction;  in reality, all objects 
and flashes travel along a single line in space.)  

This piling-up and stretching-out of periodic light flashes in opposite 
directions is called the Doppler shift.  Notice that the Doppler shift 
combines two effects.  (1) The emitter is  "chasing its own flashes" in 
its direction of motion and "running away from its own flashes" in the 
opposite direction.  (2)  The beacon clock emits forward and backward 
light flashes every unit of its own time.  But the beacon clock -- like 
all other moving clocks -- runs slow compared with clocks in the current 
rest frame.  This means that the beacon emits fewer light flashes 
forward -- and also backward -- than would be expected from the lapse of 
time in the current rest frame.

7.  Shortcuts and Power Uses

In this section we describe some ways in which you can speed up your 
operation of the HIGHWAY and SPACETIME DIAGRAM programs.  All of these 
procedures are described elsewhere in this manual, but are collected 
here as a separate briefing document.

Use letter commands.  Many commands can be executed by pressing a single 
letter.  The menu that shows such a command does not have to be pulled 
down;  just press the letter.  The menu -- and its help screen -- can be 
used as a reminder of the meaning of the letter command.  The menu also 
will show the command in "gray" type when it cannot be executed at the 
current place in the program.

To create an object at the same horizontal position as an existing 
object in HIGHWAY.  Use F6 to select the existing object, press i (for 
information), then press a letter to specify the type of new object you 
wish to create -- (C)lock, (R)od, (F)lash, (S)huttle, (B)eacon, or 
(K)lock string.  The cross hair will appear on the center strip at the 
same horizontal location as the chosen existing object.

To align two objects in HIGHWAY.  Select one object.  Then select the 
other object.  (Order  of selection does not matter).  Then press A.  
This procedure will not work for two objects in the same lane or when 
one object is the shuttle or a light flash emitted by a beacon.  
(Indeed, you cannot select a light flash emitted by a beacon, and beacon 
flashes do not appear in the object table.)

Appendix A:  How to . . .

This appendix lists commands by the actions they carry out (erase, 
create, etc.).  Look for action verbs, listed alphabetically.  Each 
description is very specific and brief:  a quick reminder.  Alternative 
ways to execute the same command are not necessarily listed.  Fuller 
descriptions can be found in Appendix B under the menu that includes the 
command.

Align two Objects
                1. Select one object.  (Press F6, press letter of object.)
                2. Select the other object. (Order of selection does not 
matter)
                3.  Press A.
                (will not work for Shuttle or for flashes emitted by a 
Beacon)
                
Annotate . . .
        annotate events
        or objects:
                1. display Event Table  or Object Table (see "Display" 
below)
                2. type notes
                (move cursor with arrow keys, edit with Del or backspace 
keys)
                3. close table with Esc key 
                 (notes kept if file saved)     

Call . . .      see Display
        
Change . . .
        change frame:   in HIGHWAY, 
                press F6, press letter of object, press J to jump to object
                or press G and enter numerical value of beta or gamma
        
                in SPACETIME DIAGRAM,
                press + and - keys to transform "up" and "down" in relative 
speed
                (change size of speed jump by selecting dBeta in 
F4:TRANSFORM menu)
                or press G and enter numerical value of beta or gamma
                
        change time:    in HIGHWAY (see figure below), 
                use up-down arrows to change time by 0.1 unit
                use PgUp-PgDn keys to change time by 1.0 unit
                use Home-End keys to change time by 0.01 unit

                or press T, enter numerical time, press ENTER

                in SPACETIME DIAGRAM, 
                press T, enter numerical time, press ENTER
                or press T, use up-down arrows or PgUp-PgDn or Home-End keys 
                (same as for HIGHWAY, except right and left arrows do 
nothing)                press ENTER 


                

        change windows:         
                Press H for HIGHWAY
                Press D for SPACETIME DIAGRAM
                Press W for SPLIT WINDOW
                Event Table and Object Table:  press F2, move highlight with 
                   up-down arrows to desired table, press ENTER

Clear screen    press F5
                move highlight to New command using arrow keys 
                press ENTER
                press N if you do NOT want to save display before clearing

Create . . .
                in HIGHWAY:
        create Clock:   1.  press C
                Rod:    1.  press R
                Flash:  1.  press F
                Shuttle:        1.  press S
                Beacon: 1.  press B
                Klock string:   1.  press K

                2. move cursor to desired lane and x-position 
                (up-down arrow keys move through "convenient" b's and g's;
                PgUp-PgDn keys to move large amount in b,
                Home-End keys to move 0.01 in b;
                right-left arrow keys to move horizontally by 0.25
                hold SHIFT key, press right-left arrows to move by 0.01
                hold Caps Lock key, press right-left arrows to move by 
0.001)
                
                3. Press ENTER to create object.

        

        create connect: in SPACETIME DIAGRAM,
                1. Press F6, press number of one event on keys at top of 
keyboard
                2. Press F6, press number of other event
                3. Press C to connect the two events.
                
        create event:   in HIGHWAY,
                Press F6, press letter of object, press E to create event at 
object

                in SPACETIME DIAGRAM
                1. move cursor to desired x and t location (numbers in lower 
left)
                (use arrow keys plus "diagonal" PgUp, PgDn, Home, End keys 
to              step 0.25 unit; hold SHIFT key, press same keys to step 0.01 
unit;
                hold CapsLock key, press same keys to step 0.001 unit.)
                2. press letter E key to create event.

        create  in SPACETIME DIAGRAM,
        hyperbola:      Press F6, press number key of event, press B
                                create  in SPACETIME DIAGRAM,
        lightcone:      Press F6, press number key of event, press K

        
        create new object at position of existing object: in HIGHWAY,
                1. press F6
                2. press letter of desired existing object
                3. press i
                4. press letter of object to be created, e.g.,. C for clock 
(menu F1)
                 (cursor will appear on center strip at position of existing 
object)
                5. use up-down arrow keys to place new object in desired 
lane
                6. press ENTER
                
                
Delete . . .
        delete object   
        or event:       press F6, press letter of object or number of event, 
press Del key

        delete connect: in SPACETIME DIAGRAM,
                1. press F6, press number of either connected event
                2. press F6, press number of other connected event (order 
not important)
                3. press F1  
                4. move highlight down to delete Connect using arrow keys  
                5. press ENTER

        delete lightcone
        or hyperbola:   in SPACETIME DIAGRAM,
                1. press F6 
                2. press number of event through which construction is drawn
                3. press F1
                4. move highlight down to given delete command using arrow 
keys 
                5. press ENTER

Display . . .
        display Event Table
        or Object Table:        
                1. press F2
                2. move highlight to Event Table or Object Table entry using 
arrow keys 
                3. press ENTER  
                4. press Esc key to return to preceding display
        display help screen:  
                1. press question mark key (?).  
                If no menu is down, a general help screen will be displayed.
                If menu is down, commands in that menu will be explained.
                2. press SPACEBAR to exit help
        
        display info on object:  in HIGHWAY display, 
                1. press F6 
                2.  press letter key of object about which you want info
                3. press letter i
                information appears in bottom line of screen
                (You can carry out other functions with object info line in 
place.)
                4. Restore regular bottom line display by pressing X. 

Erase . . .     see Delete

Get . . .       see Display

Go to . . .     see Transform, Jump to

Jump to object  in HIGHWAY,
                Press F6; press letter of object; press J.

Magnify Press M to get a closer view. (Press Z to Zoom out.)    

Move . . .
        move object:    To move object with time, see change time above.
                You cannot change the HIGHWAY lane of any object except the 
                shuttle (see Program shuttle below).  You cannot change 
                the right-left position of any object without changing time.
                If object has been placed wrong, delete it and create new 
object.

        move screen:    in  HIGHWAY or SPLIT WINDOW
                move screen right and left with right-left arrow keys

                in SPACETIME DIAGRAM,
                move cursor off any edge of the screen and the screen 
                will scroll so as to keep the cursor on the screen.

        move dividing   in SPLIT WINDOW,
        bar:    1. hold down SHIFT key and press up-down arrow keys,
                2. press ENTER

        

        move highway    in SPLIT WINDOW,
        up and down:    1. press V, use up-down arrow keys to move 
highway display
                (Home, left-arrow, End gives top, middle, bottom lanes 
                respectively.)
                2. press ENTER

                        
Program shuttle, in HIGHWAY,
                1. step time to locate shuttle where you want it to change 
lanes
                2. press P (cross-hair cursor will appear on shuttle)
                3. press up-down arrow keys to move cursor to new lane
                (for large cursor steps, use PgUp and PgDn keys
                for small cursor steps, use Home and End keys)
                4. press ENTER 

Print   1. press F5, 
                2. use up-down arrows to move highlight to Print command
                3. press ENTER

Quit    1. press Q
                You will be asked if you want to save current display
                2. Press Y to save, N to quit without saving

Read file       1. press F5
                2. use up-down arrows to move highlight to Read command
                3.  press ENTER  (Table shows existing files.)
                4. Type name of file desired (you may omit extension .STS)
                5. press ENTER 

Save file       1. press F5
                2. use up-down arrows to move highlight to Save command
                3.  press ENTER (Table shows existing files.)
                4. Type name for file (eight letters maximum, no spaces)
                5. press ENTER 
                
Select  1. press F6 (in HIGHWAY objects will be labeled with 
letters)
                2. press a letter to select an object
                     press a number to select an event (use Event Table if 
needed 
                      to find event number)

Show    see Display

Split the window     press W

Synchronize clock, in HIGHWAY,   
                1. press F6
                2. press letter of clock to be synchronized
                3. press U
                4. press SPACEBAR

Transform . . .
        transform frame:        in HIGHWAY, 
                1. press F6
                2. press letter of object to which you wish to jump
                3. press J to jump to object
                
                in SPACETIME DIAGRAM,
                press + or - key to transform "up" or "down" in speed
                (change speed jump by selecting dBeta in F4:TRANSFORM menu)
                or press G and enter numerical value of beta or gamma

        transform to last frame:  
                press L  
                This transforms to most recent frame.
                Press L multiple times to jump back and forth between two 
frames.

        transform to original frame:
                press O (the letter "oh")
                This transforms to frame when current display was started.
                
Turn on/off . . . 
        turn on/off interval labels:  in SPACETIME DIAGRAM,
                1. press F3
                2. move highlight down to Interval on command
                3. press ENTER
        
        turn on/off worldlines:  in SPACETIME DIAGRAM,
                1. press F3
                2. move highlight down to Worldlines on command
                3. press ENTER

Unsynchronize clock, in HIGHWAY   
                1. press F6
                2. press letter of clock to be unsynchronized
                3. press U
                4. type in desired time for clock reading
                5. press ENTER

Write notes . . .
        about events
        or objects:     
                1. display Event Table  or Object Table (see Display above)
                2. type notes (move cursor with arrow keys edit with Del and 
backspace keys)
                3. close table with Esc key.  (Notes kept if file saved.)       

Zoom out        Press Z to get a wider view.  (Press M to magnify.)

Appendix B:  All the Commands, by Menu

This appendix systematically lists and describes all commands in the 
SPACETIME programs, starting with commands entered using the keypad at 
the right of the keyboard, then menu by menu.  But first, you need to 
know about the help screens.

Help (question mark key [?])

At almost any time you can obtain on-screen help about the commands by 
pressing the question mark key [?] on the keyboard.  When no menu is 
down, you will obtain a general help screen.  When a menu is down, you 
will see a summary of the commands on that menu. 

Keypad Commands:  HIGHWAY display

Most of the time the bottom line of the HIGHWAY screen reads, in part: 

This refers to commands entered using the keypad at the right of the 
screen.  The keypad at the right of the keyboard is NEVER used to enter 
numbers in these programs.  Enter numbers using the keys across the TOP 
of the keyboard.  If the keypad at the right of the keyboard does not 
work as described here, strike the Num Lock key above the keypad;  it 
may have been pressed by mistake. 

Change time using the up arrow and down arrow keys:  up-arrow for a step 
forward in time, down-arrow for a step backward in time.  (See diagram 
below.)  The time step for the up-down arrows is 0.1 unit in the current 
frame of reference.  Use the PgUp and PgDn keys to step forward or 
backward by 1.0, one full unit of time, respectively.  Use the Home and 
End keys to step forward or backward by the smaller 0.01 unit of time, 
respectively.  These eight keys allow you to go to any given time with 
two-decimal-place accuracy.   (You can set time to an accuracy of 0.0001 
unit using the Change (T)ime command in the F3:SETTINGS menu.  See 
below.) 


Right arrow and left arrow keys are used to move the screen display to 
the right or left, respectively.  These commands do not change the 
relative positions of objects or the time;  they simply allow you to 
look at a different portion of the Highway.  

As you change time, objects may move off of the visible portion of the 
screen.  When this happens a little arrow is placed at the edge of the 
screen pointing to the off-screen object, with a label:  CL for clock, 
RD for rod, FL for flash, SH for shuttle.  (If two or more objects are 
in the same lane, these labels may overlap.)  To bring an object back 
on-screen, either change the time or move the screen in the correct 
direction to bring the object back into sight.

Keypad Commands:  SPACETIME DIAGRAM display

The eight keys around the "edge" of the keypad are used to move the 
cursor in eight directions.  (See diagram below.)


As you move the cursor, the bottom line of the display gives the x and t 
coordinates of the position of the cursor on the spacetime diagram.  
Each key press moves the cursor by 0.25 units (for "diagonal" keys, 0.25 
units in both x and t directions).  Hold down the SHIFT key while using 
the keypad to move the cursor by 0.01 unit.  Hold down the Caps Lock key 
while using the keypad to move the cursor by 0.001 unit.  You place an 
event at the present position of the cursor by pressing the letter E.

You change time in SPACETIME DIAGRAM by pressing the letter T and 
entering the desired time using the number keys across the top of the 
keyboard.  (See the F3:SETTINGS menu below.)  Another way to change time 
is to press T and then press the keypad keys to move the dashed line of 
simultaneity up and down.  In this case, each time step is the same as 
in the HIGHWAY display -- see the keypad diagram in the preceding 
section.  (The right and left arrows do nothing in the present case.)  
When you have moved the line of simultaneity to the time you wish, press 
ENTER.
 

Command menus at the top of the screen


Across the top of the screen are titles for the pull-down menus.  These 
menus contain most of the commands used to manipulate the display.  
Commands are grouped by function, so filing operations can be found in 
the menu titled F5:Files, etc.  Pull down a menu by pressing the 
corresponding function key.  Commands printed in solid color in the menu 
are executable at the current point in the program, while commands 
printed in "gray" do not presently apply and therefore cannot be chosen.  

There are two ways to execute a menu command.  (1) One menu item is 
highlighted.  Use the up and down arrow keys to move this highlight to 
the command you wish to execute.  Then press ENTER to execute that 
command.  (2) Some of the commands have one letter in parenthesis (for 
example Change (T)ime).  Press that letter on the keyboard (for example 
T) to execute the corresponding command.  These command letters in 
parenthesis will execute anytime, even when the menu is not pulled down.  
This means that once you have learned the most common commands, you do 
not need to use the menus for these commands.  The menus then serve as 
reminders for the common commands, as well as the only way to execute 
commands that do not have a letter equivalent.  (If the command is shown 
in gray in the menu, it cannot be executed at this point in the 
program.)

A reminder of the two ways to execute a command is printed at the bottom 
of every page of this manual.  

Retract the menu by pressing the Esc key or the spacebar or the function 
key for the menu.  Pressing another function key calls up the 
corresponding alternative menu.  You can also call up an adjacent menu 
by pressing the right or left arrow key while a menu is displayed. 

Menu F1: OBJECTS (HIGHWAY display)


Menu F1 is different for the HIGHWAY and for SPACETIME DIAGRAM.  This 
listing is for the HIGHWAY menu.  The SPACETIME DIAGRAM menu is 
described below.

The F1:OBJECTS menu allows you to create and manipulate the objects that 
reside on the highway display.  

Creating Objects

Create an object from menu F1 either (1) by using the up-down arrow keys 
to move the highlight to the create command for that object and then 
pressing ENTER, or (2) simply by pressing the keyboard letter in 
parenthesis in the name of the object.  You can use the letter to create 
an object even if the menu is not pulled down.

When you select an object to be created, a cross-hair cursor appears in 
the center of the screen.   With the up-down arrow keys move the cursor 
vertically into the desired speed-lane.  Using the right-left arrow 
keys, move the cursor horizontally into the desired position along the 
highway.  As you move the cursor, look at the numbers along the bottom 
line of the screen.  These numbers reflect the cursor's position on the 
highway.  The first number x is the right-left position of the cursor on 
the highway.  The second number, b, is the speed of the lane as a 
fraction of the speed of light.  The third number, g, is called the time 
stretch factor gamma and is the factor by which moving clocks run slow 
and moving rods are contracted.

If you wish to move the cursor by different amounts, use the PgUp and 
PgDn keys to move vertically across the lanes with a larger step and the 
Home and End keys to move with a smaller step.  Hold down the SHIFT key 
while pressing the right-left arrow keys to select x-position on the 
highway with smaller steps (0.01 change in x).  Hold down the Caps Lock 
key while pressing the right-left arrow keys for even smaller steps 
(0.001 change in x). 

After you have placed the cursor where you want the object, press ENTER.  
If you decide not to create an object after all, press the Esc key.

Here are fuller descriptions of the various objects.

(C)lock


A clock is represented by a small box with a number in it.  The number 
is the time reading of the clock.  A clock is said to be synchronized if 
it is synchronized in its frame  (that is, when on the center line of 
the highway) with the "reference clock"  that reads t=0 at position x=0.  
All clocks are initially synchronized in their own frames, but can be 
set at unsynchronized values using the (U)nsynchronize clock command 
(see below).   Times for unsynchronized clocks are displayed in reverse 
video (black on an illuminated square background).  The horizontal lines 
projecting out on either side of the clock shows the actual up-down lane 
position of the clock.  The two vertical lines projecting from the top 
and bottom of the clock show what width the clock would have if it were 
shown Lorentz-contracted (as rods are -- see below).  We cannot contract 
the box for clocks and still write the clock time in the box.
(R)od


The second object is a rod.  Rods are exactly one unit of length at rest 
and are therefore useful for measuring distances in various reference 
frames.  One unit of length in this program is the distance that a flash 
of light travels in one unit of time.  It is also the distance between 
hatch marks on the horizontal line in the middle of the screen.  Moving 
rods are shown to be Lorentz-contracted by the factor gamma g along 
their direction of motion.

(F)lash

The third object is a simple flash of light.  Flashes can move only at b 
=ñ1.  Flashes can therefore occupy only the top and bottom lanes of the 
superhighway.  Notice that the cursor cannot be placed at other speeds 
when you are creating a light flash.

(S)huttle

The fourth object is a shuttle.  What we call a shuttle is a clock which 
can be programmed to change frames at specified times.  (Programming the 
shuttle will be discussed later.)  The shuttle is useful for measuring 
the proper time of a round trip.  Only one shuttle is allowed on the 
highway at a time.

(B)eacon

A beacon is a clock which emits two photons (flashes of light), one 
forward and one backward, at every unit of time in its own reference 
frame, starting at t=0 on its clock.  The flashes emitted by the beacon 
do not appear in the Object Table and cannot be selected using the 
F6:SELECT key.

 (K)lock string

A clock string is an infinite set of regularly-spaced, synchronized 
clocks, all in the same reference frame.  When this string of clocks is 
on the center strip -- that is, when it is at rest in the current 
reference frame -- all the clocks read the same time.  In contrast, when 
the string of clocks is moving, the clocks read times different from one 
another.  This is called the relative synchronization of clocks.  It is 
one of the most difficult concepts in special relativity.  See Section 6 
above for more comments on the relative synchronization of clocks.   

When the clock string is at rest (on the center strip), clocks in the 
string are spaced one unit of distance apart.  When the string is in a 
fast-moving lane, Lorentz contraction would bring the clocks so close 
together that they would overlap and could not be read.  To avoid this 
screen clutter, a sufficient number of alternative clocks are omitted so 
that the remaining clocks do not overlap.  The fraction of clocks shown 
is approximately equal to 1/g, where g is the Lorentz contraction factor 
(the same as the time stretch factor).  For the g = 3 lane, every third 
clock is shown;  for the g = 5 lane, every fifth clock is shown, and so 
on.  The omission of clocks means that the distance between displayed 
clocks in a clock string is not governed by the Lorentz contraction 
factor g .
 
Preview:  F6: SELECT

Some of the following commands in the F1: OBJECTS menu make use of the 
F6:SELECT command, so we explain this command here, out of order.   

Sometimes it is necessary to perform some operation on an object, such 
as jumping to it or deleting it.  In order to specify which object you 
want the operation to affect, you must first select it.

To select an object, press function key F6.  All objects on the screen 
will be labeled with letters.  Press the keyboard letter of the object 
you wish to select.  The selected object will have a box drawn around 
it.  The object remains selected until F6 is used to select a different 
object or event.  (There is no harm in letting an object remain 
selected, but if you wish no objects to be selected press F6 and then 
the spacebar.)  You can also select an event by pressing F6 and then the 
number of the event.  No box or other symbol tells you which event is 
selected in HIGHWAY. 

Here are the commands in the F1:OBJECTS menu that require the select 
key. 

(E)vent@Object.  (This command shows gray in the menu until you select 
on object on which it may operate.)  Often one wishes to place an event 
at the present position of an object.  To do so, select the object (see 
above) and press the letter E.  The event is shown as a vertical line 
across the entire highway and is labeled with the letter E and a number.  
(Event E0 is the reference event which occurs at x=0 and t=0 in all 
reference frames.)  The time of the event is set to the current time as 
measured in the current reference frame.  Each event will appear at the 
object whenever the same time reoccurs.  SPACETIME has a feature to 
prevent you from accidentally skipping over an event while incrementing 
the time.  The display will automatically stop at the time of every 
event, even if the event occurs between time steps.

(DEL)ete Object/Event.  (This command shows gray in the menu until you 
select on object on which it may operate.)  To delete an object or event 
-- to remove it entirely from the screen -- select the object or event 
and then press the Del key.

(U)nsynchronize clock.  (This command shows gray in the menu until you 
select on object on which it may operate.)  Sometimes you want a clock 
to have a particular reading, say at a particular event.  To accomplish 
this, select the clock (see above) and press the letter U.  An insert 
box will appear, inviting you to type in the desired time.  After you 
type the time and press ENTER, the clock will read the new time in 
reverse video (black numerals on a colored background) to remind you 
that the clock is not synchronized with other clocks in its frame.  You 
can use the same command to synchronize a clock again, this time 
pressing the SPACEBAR.

(P)rogram Shuttle.  The shuttle is simply a clock that can change lanes;  
it remembers any velocity changes you give it.  Create the shuttle at 
the desired original speed and position.  Then advance the time to the 
time at which you want it to change velocity, and press the letter P.  A 
cursor will appear at the current position of the shuttle.  Move the 
cursor into another lane using the keypad at the right of the keyboard.  
Then press ENTER to select the new lane.  Two shuttles will now be drawn 
on the screen:  one at the velocity just before the jump, and one at the 
new velocity.  This is because at the time of the jump the shuttle's 
velocity is undefined.  Go to times prior to the jump, however, and you 
will find the shuttle moving at the original speed;  go to times after 
the jump and it travels with the new speed.  A history of the shuttle's 
velocity changes is kept in the Event Table, described later.

Because the time on the shuttle is continuous, when it jumps to new 
frames it will be out of synchronization with the new "local" time.  
When that happens, the shuttle time is shown in reverse video (black 
letters on an illuminated background).  Whenever you wish, you can use 
the (U)nsynchronize clock command to re-synchronize the shuttle to the 
time as measured at its position in its local frame, but then it will be 
out of synchronization when it jumps to other frames (including earlier 
frames).

You cannot change the spatial (right-left) position of the shuttle while 
programming it.  To do so would represent an instantaneous change in the 
spatial position of the shuttle, which is physically impossible.

You can program the shuttle to change lanes repeatedly.  You must make 
lane changes in chronological order.  Normally you will add a velocity 
change at the end of a sequence of previous velocity changes.  If you 
try to insert a shuttle velocity change before the velocity change which 
is chronologically last, a box appears to warn you that by doing so you 
will delete all later shuttle changes of velocity.  

Menu F1: CONSTRUCT (SPACETIME DIAGRAM display)

The F1 menu is different for HIGHWAY than for SPACETIME DIAGRAM.  This 
listing is for SPACETIME DIAGRAM.


The (E)vent command will place an event-point at the location of the 
cursor.  Position the cursor where you want the event and then either 
press the letter E or highlight the command using the up and down arrow 
keys and press ENTER.

Note:  The intersection of the line of simultaneity with the worldline 
of an object is labeled with the letter corresponding to that object.  
The dot that marks that intersection is not a true event, because it 
moves as you step through time;  it always lies on the line of 
simultaneity.  This dot is there simply to aid in locating the current 
position of an object.  To place a fixed, numbered event at the 
intersection of the line of simultaneity with a world line, jump to the 
HIGHWAY display, select the object, using the (E)vent@object command, 
then jump back to SPACETIME DIAGRAM.

The remainder of the commands on this menu (except Help and Close) 
require the use of the F6:SELECT command.  

(C)onnect.  To connect two events, press F6:SELECT and select one of the 
events by number, then press F6:SELECT again and select the second event 
by number.  (The order of selection is not important.)  Now use the 
(C)onnect command to draw a line between the two events.  

A number and letter appears next to the connect line.  The number is the 
spacetime interval that relates the two events.  The letter 'T' denotes 
a timelike interval, 'L' denotes a lightlike interval, and 'S' denotes a 
spacelike interval.

Physics note:  The invariant interval is a number relating two events 
which has the same value when computed using the space and time 
coordinates of any laboratory or rocket reference frame -- hence the 
descriptor "invariant."   If the interval is timelike (label T), then a 
clock traveling between the two events will read an elapsed time equal 
to the interval.  If the interval is spacelike (label S), then there 
exists a frame in which the two events occur at the same time;  in this 
frame the distance between the two events is equal to the interval.  If 
the interval is lightlike (label L), then only light can travel fast 
enough to get from one event to another and the interval has the value 
zero.  See any introductory relativity textbook for more than this 
reminder.

To reduce screen clutter, you may want to delete the interval labels 
from connect lines.  To do so, toggle the Interval on command in the 
F3:SETTINGS menu .

Light(K)one. This command allows you to place a "lightcone" through any 
numbered event.  A lightcone consists of the world lines of light 
flashes converging on the event from below and diverging from the event 
above.  First select the event using F6, then press K (or highlight this 
command and press ENTER). 

Hyper(B)ola.  This command box allows you to place an invariant 
hyperbola through any numbered event in the same manner as for the 
lightcone above.   An invariant hyperbola is the locus of all points 
occupied by the given event when viewed from rocket frames moving with 
all possible speeds along the x-direction in space.  Select the event 
using F6, then press B (or highlight this command and press ENTER).

(DEL)ete Object/Event.  Delete an object or event by selecting it using 
F6, then pressing the DEL key (or highlighting this command and pressing 
ENTER).  When you delete an event, all other constructions associated 
with the event (connect lines, lightcone, hyperbola) are deleted as 
well.

delete Connect.  To delete a connect line, use F6 to select in sequence 
each of the events at the end of the line (which event you select first 
does not matter) and then highlight this command and press ENTER.  
(There is no single letter key that invokes this command.)

delete Lightcone.  To delete a lightcone, use F6 to select the event 
through which the lightcone passes, then highlight this command and 
press ENTER.  (There is no single letter key that invokes this command.)

delete Hyperbola.   To delete an hyperbola, use F6 to select the event 
through which the hyperbola passes, then highlight this command and 
press ENTER.  (There is no single letter key that invokes this command.)  

Menu F2: WINDOWS
  

The F2:WINDOWS menu controls which display is on the screen and some of 
the information functions.  

Spacetime (D)iagram.  SPACETIME DIAGRAM is described fully in an earlier 
section.  You can call up Spacetime Diagram, with all the current 
objects and events displayed, either by selecting the first entry in 
this menu or simply by pressing D.

(H)ighway.  HIGHWAY is described fully in an earlier section.  Using 
this command returns you to the HIGHWAY display when you are in some 
other.

Split (W)indow.  This is a display that splits the screen, showing 
HIGHWAY in the upper portion and SPACETIME DIAGRAM in the lower portion.  
You can advance time and watch the development of the two 
representations in parallel.  

Object (I)nfo.  To get more detailed information about an object, select 
the object with function key F6, then press the letter I (capital or 
lower case i).  Information about the selected object's position, speed, 
gamma factor, and time (if a clock or the shuttle) or length (if a rod) 
is displayed across the bottom of the screen.  You can leave this 
display in place while you carry out other commands, or you can press X 
to return to the regular bottom-of-screen display.

Sometimes you want to create an object at exactly the same horizontal 
position as another object.  If you select Object (I)nfo, then press any 
of the "create" letters, the creation cursor will appear on the center 
strip at the horizontal position of the object whose information is 
being displayed.  Move the cursor to the speed-lane desired and press 
ENTER.

Event Table.  This is a table of all events that have been placed in 
either Highway or Spacetime Diagram displays.  To get to this table, you 
must press function key F2, move the highlighted marker down to the 
Event Table entry, and press ENTER.  The Event Table shows all events, 
along with a history of the shuttle jumps.  You can annotate each event 
with a label of up to 25 letters.  Use the arrow keys to place the 
cursor, then type.  Use the Del and backspace keys to erase as needed.  
These labels will be stored with this display if you file it (see 
below).  Press the Esc key to return to the previous display. 

Object Table.  This table lists all objects created in the Highway 
program.  Call up the table from menu F2, highlight the Object Table 
entry, and press ENTER.  The table lists type of object, current 
position, speed b, gamma factor g,  and the reading on a clock or the 
length of a rod in the current frame.  Here too you can add notes as 
described in the preceding entry.   Press Esc to return to the previous 
display.  Flashes emitted by a Beacon clock are not listed on the Object 
Table.

Menu F3: SETTINGS

The F3:SETTINGS menu allows you to change various parameters in the 
Highway and Spacetime Diagram displays.

t = (0).  You can return to the original time t = 0 by highlighting the 
first item in this menu and pressing ENTER, or you can simply press the 
zero key at the top of the keyboard. 

Change (T)ime.  You can set the time of the current frame to any value 
by pressing the letter T,  typing the time in the box that is called up, 
and pressing ENTER (or Esc to cancel).  This is a direct way to go to a 
desired time and allows four decimal place accuracy.

When you change time in HIGHWAY,  objects on the screen will move to 
their positions at the indicated time. 

When you change time in SPACETIME DIAGRAM, the line of simultaneity will 
move to center of the screen at the new time.  Alternatively, starting 
from the insert box, you may change the time using the up-down arrow 
keys.  If you press one of these keys, the line of simultaneity moves up 
or down in steps of 0.1 unit, while its time-position is displayed along 
the bottom of the screen.  Use the  PgUp and PgDn keys to change time in 
steps of 1.0 unit or the Home and End keys to change time in steps of 
0.01 unit.  When you arrive at the desired time, press ENTER.  Then the 
line of simultaneity will be moved to the center of the screen at the 
new time.  If you change your mind while moving the line of 
simultaneity, press the Esc key.

(A)lign Objects.  Often it is desirable to go to the time when two 
objects coincide in space.  HIGHWAY has a feature which automatically 
finds and goes to the time at which two objects are aligned.  First,  
select one of the two objects you wish to align.  Next, select the other 
object.  (The order in which they are selected is not important.)  Then 
press the letter A.  The display will go to the time at which the two 
objects have the same right-left position on the screen.

Note:  It is not possible to align two objects residing in the same 
frame (the same velocity lane), because they never coincide.  Also, 
because the shuttle may jump from frame to frame and might coincide with 
another object multiple times or not at all, the program does not allow 
you to align the shuttle with other objects using the method described 
above.  Instead, you must move the shuttle to alignment by changing time 
by hand.

The align function is particularly useful when you wish to have an event 
located at the coincidence of two objects.  To do this, simply align the 
objects as described above and then use the (E)vent@Object command from 
menu F1.

(M)agnify.  This command allows you to "zoom in" on the display, 
increasing the right-left scale.  It does not affect the vertical 
distance across the highway.  In SPACETIME DIAGRAM it increases both the 
horizontal and vertical scales.

(Z)oom out.  This command allows you to "back away" from the display, 
decreasing the right-left scale.  It does not affect the vertical 
distance across the highway.  In SPACETIME DIAGRAM it decreases both the 
horizontal and vertical scales.

(V)iew Lanes (SPLIT WINDOW only)  Use this command to uncover portions 
of the highway which may be obscured in the split-window setting.  After 
pressing V, use the arrow keys to move the highway up and down, then 
press ENTER.  The solid square that moves at the right of the screen 
helps in the positioning.  (To move the bar that separates the two 
windows, hold down the SHIFT key and press the up-down arrow keys to 
position the bar, then press ENTER.)
 
Interval on.  (SPACETIME DIAGRAM)  This command toggles on and off the 
interval label on connect lines.  When the menu item is marked with a 
triangular caret, the labels are "on."  Toggle it off (or back on again) 
by using the arrow keys to move the highlight to this command and 
pressing ENTER.

Worldlines on.  (SPACETIME DIAGRAM) This command toggles on and off the 
world lines of objects moving on the highway.   When the triangular 
caret mark is present, the worldlines are "on."  Toggle it off (or back 
on again) by using the arrow keys to move the highlight to this command 
and pressing ENTER.

Menu F4: TRANSFORM
 

The F4:TRANSFORM menu allows you to change frames:  to look at the 
HIGHWAY and the SPACETIME DIAGRAM displays from the point of view of any 
one of many observers moving at uniform right-or-left velocities with 
respect to one another.
  
(J)ump to Object.  (HIGHWAY only)  The positions and velocities of all 
objects are measured with respect to the center lane of the highway.  
You can stand on the shuttle or any clock or rod by jumping to it.  
Notice that since you perceive the object on which you stand as 
motionless, it always occupies the middle lane (b=0).  Since light 
flashes move at the speed of light in all frames, you cannot jump to a 
light flash.  

Before using this command, you must select the object to which you wish 
to jump.  Select by pressing function key F6, then pressing the letter 
of the object you wish to select.  To jump to the selected object, move 
the highlight to the first entry in this menu and press ENTER.  Or 
simply press key J.

You can jump to the shuttle and ride on it as it changes velocity.  
Simply jump to it in the same manner as previously described for 
objects.  Riding the shuttle allows you to "experience" such paradoxes 
as the Twin Paradox.  (See Section 6 and "A Trip to Alpha Centauri in 
Section 2.)  When you reach a velocity change point while riding the 
shuttle, the shuttle is drawn at two velocities to indicate that it is 
leaving one reference frame and entering another.  Relative to your 
changing frame, other travelers on the cosmic superhighway will jump 
from one lane to another at the moment of change.

Enter (G)amma, Beta. (SPACETIME DIAGRAM) In the HIGHWAY display, you can 
change frames only by jumping from one object to another.  In SPACETIME 
DIAGRAM you can change frames using the Transform up (+) or Transform 
down (-) commands (see below) or alternatively by entering numerically 
the value of beta (= v/c) or gamma (the time-stretch factor) of the new 
frame using the Enter (G)amma, Beta command.  When you execute this 
command,  an insert box comes up asking you to press the letter B if you 
wish to enter beta or the letter G if you wish to enter gamma.  If you 
select beta, you are asked to type in the value of beta, which can be in 
the range  -0.9999 to +0.9999.  If you try to enter a value outside of 
this range, the program will ignore your entry.   If you select gamma, 
you are asked to type in the value of gamma, which must be a positive 
number greater than or equal to unity.  After entering gamma, you are 
asked to type in a minus sign if you want the relative speed beta to be 
negative.

(L)ast frame.  This command allows you to "undo" the most recent jump or 
transformation, going back to the frame you were in before the most 
recent ("last") jump.  If you press the L key repeatedly, you will jump 
back and forth between the two most recent frames.  This is useful in 
comparing displays for two different frames.  If you have made no jumps 
or transformations, executing this command will have no effect.

(O)riginal frame.  This command takes you back to the original frame 
with which you began the current display.  This will put clock A in the 
center of the screen.  This command does not take you back to t=0 on 
this clock;  that is done using the t=(0) command in the F3:SETTINGS 
menu.

Transform up     (+)
Transform down  (-)
(SPACETIME DIAGRAM)
Using the plus and minus keys, you can transform "up" (that is, to a 
frame moving with positive relative velocity) or "down" (to a frame 
moving with negative relative velocity) by a velocity step dBeta marked 
by the triangular caret on the menu.  Select another step size dBeta by 
highlighting the desired value and pressing ENTER.     

If you jump from one object to another in the HIGHWAY display, the 
resulting frame change will be reflected in SPACETIME DIAGRAM.  
Similarly, if you transform from one frame to another in SPACETIME 
DIAGRAM, the HIGHWAY display will correspond to the new frame.

SPACETIME remembers each frame change.  The speed of your current frame 
with respect to the original frame of reference (the one you started in) 
is displayed in the lower left corner of the screen, along with the 
cursor coordinates.  You can get back to the original frame of reference 
either by using the Enter (G)amma, Beta command and entering for beta 
minus the number displayed in the lower left corner, or by using the 
(O)riginal Frame command.  You can also jump back to the most recent 
frame of reference by using the (L)ast Frame command.
  
Also notice that if you are riding the shuttle on the highway, you will 
jump from frame to frame at the appropriate times in Spacetime Diagram.

Menu F5: FILES


The F5:FILES menu allows you to save displays you have constructed, 
recall from the disk any files you or others have saved, delete files, 
start a new display, print a display, or quit.  All the commands unique 
to this menu except for (Q)uit must be executed by using the up-down 
arrow keys to move the highlight to the command, then pressing ENTER.   
You will be asked to verify any operation that could result in losing 
information.

Read allows you to specify a disk file on which to work.  If you already 
have a display on the screen, the computer will ask you if you want to 
save it before reading an existing file.  Then it will show you what 
files are on the disk.  All these files have the "extension" .STS (the 
three letters after the period in the name).  You do not need to type 
the period or the extension when reading or saving files:  that is 
assumed or added by the machine.  Press the Esc key to return to the  
existing screen without reading in a file. 
 
Save saves the current display to disk.  For a new display, you will be 
asked to type in a name (eight characters or less, with no spaces) and 
press ENTER.  If you have filed the current display earlier, it will 
assume you want to use the same name.  If you do, press ENTER.  If you 
want to file under a new name, simply type the new name and press ENTER. 

Delete allows you to delete an existing stored file.  This is useful if 
you wish to save your present display but the program tells you that the 
disk is full. 
 
New creates a new, clean document on which to work.  If a display 
exists, you will be asked if you want to save it before starting the new 
screen.  The New command is executed automatically when the program 
starts.

Print prints the contents of the screen.

Form Feed advances the paper in the printer to the start of the next 
page.

Menu F6: SELECT

You select an object if you wish to jump to it, delete it, change its 
reading (if a clock), and so forth.

The F6:SELECT "menu" has only one function:  Select.  After you press 
function key F6, the line along the bottom of the screen asks you to 
indicate what you want to select.  Select an object by pressing the 
letter corresponding to that object, an event by pressing the number 
corresponding to that event, the SPACEBAR to "unselect" so that nothing 
is selected, or any other key to cancel the select process (leaving 
selected whatever was selected before -- including nothing if no 
selection has been made).  If you cannot remember the number of a given 
event, advance the time to that event and read its number, or view the 
Event Table (under the F3:SETTINGS menu).

If you want to find the time at which two objects are aligned (HIGHWAY 
only), you need to select the two objects in sequence (which one is 
selected first does not matter) and then press A.

If you want to connect two events (SPACETIME DIAGRAM only), select the 
two events in sequence (which one is selected first does not matter) and 
then press C.

