f 'julie

GEMINI VAX/VMS, Thursday, 26-Feb-1998 17:14

JMV4901 (Juliette M Vincent) is not logged in.

 Last logged in: Thursday, 26-Feb-1998 16:11
 Mail: 1 new message.
 Plan: 
Hi there. I am Julie. Let's see...I am a music performance major on flute and
voice. I love to write fiction and songs and on occasion I compose. Oh, and I
am a Phantom of the Opera phanatic. So if you like to sing....drop a line or
call on campus at 5153.(for those of you who happened to notice, my number just
changed. I moved to a private room!!!!!!!!!!!) I can almost guarantee that I will be in the music
building. that is where I actually live...not the dorms. Star Wars is another
of my loves...and Star Trek. I role-play just about anything...and I love to
read. Espescially classics and sci-fi. Want to know more? (sounds corny doesn't
it?) Write me. (or if you know a real good, dirty joke. I appreciate those.)

"Angel! I hear you!
Speak --
I listen...
stay by my side, guide me..."

"Angel of music
Hide no longer!
Come to me,
strange angel..."

"Who was that shape
in the shadows?
Whose is the face
in the mask?"

"Fear can turn to love -- you'll learn to see to find the man,
behind this monster: this...repulsive carcass, who seems a beast,
but secretly dreams of beauty,
secretly...
secretly...
Oh, Christine..."

"Serafimo, away with this pretense!
You cannot speak, but kiss me in my CROAK!"

"love me...that's all I ask of you..."

"I gave you my music. Made your song take wing, and now,
how you repay me...denied me and betrayed me..."

"Masquerade...papaer faces on parade.
Hide your face so the world will never find you."

"Twisted every way, what answer can I give?"

Phantom: Wandering child...so lost...so helpless...yearning for my guidence...
Christine: Angel or father, friend or Phantom? WHo is it there staring?
Phantom: Have you forgoton your Angel...?
Christine: Angel, oh speak. What endless longings, echo in this whisper..."

"Angel of Music, I denied you. Turning from true beauty! 
Angel of Music, my protector. Come to me strange Angel..."

"I'm here, I'm here monsuier! The angel of death!
Come on, come on, monsuier! Don't stop, don't stop!"

"We've passed the point of no return..."

"Pitiful creature of darkness, what kind of life have you known?
God gave me courage to show you, you are not alone..."

"Christine, I love you..."

"Fate links thee to me forever and a day..."

"Holy Angel in Heaven blessed, my spirit longs with thee to rest!"

"Erik! I have turned the scorpion!"

"Don't cry for my loss Erik...I have never been worthy of your tears."

"Take me...teach me..."

"It was finished then, of course...that kiss ended evrything."

"I am your Angel of Music, come to me Angel of Music..."

There is no Angel of Music. And yet he continues to live in my mind...in my
heart...and in my soul..."

"And why...so great a no?"--Cyrano deBergerac

"I knew I'd never know, that warm and loving glow. Though I might wish with all
my might..."--The Hunchback of Notre Dame

"Kyrie Eleison...
 Christe Eleison...
 Kryrie Eleison..."

"What would I give to live where you are...?
 What would I pay to stay here beside you...?
 What would I do to see you, smiling at me...?"---THe Little Mermaid

"Don't your feet get cold in the wintertime?
 The sky won't snow, and the sun won't shine
 And it's hard to tell the nighttime from the day...
 You're losing all your highs and lows,
 Ain't it funny how the feeling goes away...
 Desperado..."---The Eagles, "Desperado"


"My only lovesprung from my only hate!
 Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
 Prodigious birth of love it is to me
 That I must love a loathed enemy."--Romeo and Juliet

"O happy dagger! 
 This is thy sheath. There rust, and let me die."--Romeo and Juliet

"thus with a kiss, I die..."--Romeo and Juliet

"Tonight, tonight, won't be just any night
 Tonight there will be no morning star.
 Tonight, tonight, I'll see my love tonight.
 And for us stars will stop where they are.
 Today the minutes seem like hours
 The hours go so slowly, and still the sky is light
 Oh moon grow bright, and make this endless day endless night...
 Tonight!"--West Side Story

"I love him...but only on my own..."--Les Miserables

"Don't you fret, Monsuier Marius,
 I don't feel any pain...
 A little fall of rain
 Can hardly hurt me now.
 (marius) I'm here...
 (eponine) That's all I need to know...
 And rain
 Will make the flowers..."--Les Miserables

"I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer.
 Fear is the little death that brings total obliteration.
 I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me.
 And when it has gone past, I will turn the inner eye to see it's path.
 Where the fear has been, there will be nothing.
 Only I will remain."--Dune

"I thought you must be dead..."--Arthur
"So did I for a while, then I decided I was a lemon for a couple of weeks. I
 kept myself amused all that time jumping in and out of a gin and tonic."-Ford
-----------------Life, the Universe, and Everything

"Everyday, it's a getting closer,
 Going faster than a roller-coaster.
 Love like yours will surely come my way..."--Buddy Holly "Everyday"

"'I happen to like nice men.'-Leia
 'I am a nice man'-Han
 'no you're not'-Leia
 'Yes I am.'-Han"--Star Wars

 " Da, da, da..."

"Brave, brave, brave, brave Sir Robin"--Monty Python

"Resistance is futile. You will be assimilated."--the Borg

"We are all just prisoners here, of our own device."--Eagles "Hotel California"

I've been the wild rover for many's a year
And I've spent all me money on whiskey and beer.
But now I'm returning with gold in great store,
And I never will play the wild rover no more.
(refrain)
 And it's no, nay, never.
 No, nay, never, no more
 That I play the wild rover.
 No never, no more.
I went to an alehouse I used to frequent
And I told the landlady me money was spent.
I asked her for credit, she answered me, "Nay,"
"Such custom as yours I could have every day."
 refrain
I brought up from me pocket ten sovereigns bright.
And the landlady's eyes opened wide with delight.
She said, "I have whiskeys and wines of the best."
"Then I'll take ye upstairs and I'll show you the rest."
 refrain
I'll go home to me parenrs, confess what I've done
And ask them to pardon their prodigal son.
And when they've caressed me as oft times before
I never will play the wild rover no more.
 refrain(2)  

(that was a renn faire song. I have more to add later.)


"Alas my love you do me wrong to cast me off discourteously.
 And I have loved you oh so long delighting in your company.
 Greensleeves was all my joy and greensleeves was my delight.
 Greensleeves my heart of gold, and all for my lady Greenslevees"-Greensleeves

"Mother, Mother Ocean,
 I have heard you call.
 I've wanted to sail upon your waters
 since I was three feet tall.
 You've seen it all.
 You've seen it all.
 Watched the men who rode you
 Switch from sails to steam
 In your belly you hold such treasures
 That few have never seen.
 Most of them dreams,
 Most of them dreams.
 Yes I am a pirate,
 Two hunderd years too late
 The cannons don't thunder, there's nothing to plunder
 I'm an over forty victim of fate
 Arriving too late
 Arriving too late..."--Jimmy Buffet "A Pirate Looks at 40"

"I'm just a cheeseburger in paradise
 Heaven on earth in an onion slice..."--Jimmy Buffet "Cheeseburger in Paradise"

(If you are reading this plan file please write and tell me your opinion of it
and make any comments that you wish.)

Here is the dirty Renn Faire song..I'm going to add one stanza at a time, once
a day.

He placed his hands upon me toes
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me toes
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me toes,
I said, "My dear, you're much too low."
 Go in, go out, go all about
 Yo-ho, yo-ho, yo-ho

He placed his hands upon me shins
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me shins
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me shins
I said, "My dear, you're wits too thin."
 Go in, go out, go all about
 Yo-ho, yo-ho, yo-ho

He placed his hands upon me knees
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me knees
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me knees
I said, "My dear, stop teasin' me."
 Go in, go out, go all about
 Yo-ho, yo-ho, yo-ho

He placed his hands upon me thighs
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me thighs
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me thighs
I said, "My dear, don't make me cry."
 Go in, go out, go all about
 Yo-ho, yo-ho, yo-ho

He placed his hands upon me hair
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me hair
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me hair
I said, "My dear, you're almost there."
 Go in, go out, go all about
 Yo-ho, yo-ho, yo-ho

He placed his hands upon me breasts
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me breasts
 Yo-ho, yo-ho
He placed his hands upon me breasts
I said, "My dear, you've missed the best."
 Go in, go out, go all about
 Yo-ho, yo-ho, yo-ho

That's it. The dirty Renn Faire song is finished. If you don't like it, then
don't finger me anymore. If you do like it, drop a line and let me know how
much.

If you don't dig the blues, you got a hole in your soul.

"I really do appreciate the fact you're sitting here.
 Your voice sounds so wonderful but your face don't look too clear.
 So barmaid bring a pitcher, another round of brew.
 Honey, why don't we get drunk and screw?
(refrain) 
  Why don't we get drunk and screw? 
  I just bought a waterbed. It's filled up for me and you.
  They say you are the snub queen.
  Honey i don't think that's true.
  So why don't we get drunk and screw."--Jimmy Buffet

(That is a great song)

"We're on a misson from God."--Blues Brothers

"Let's do the time warp again!!"--Rocky Horror Picture Show

"So...come up to the lab...and see whats on the slab....I see you shiver with
antici-...(say it, say it, say it)...-pation. But maybe the rain...isn't really
to blame...so I'll remove the cause...but not...the symptom!"--Rocky Horror
Picture Show 

"Then come no futher, for death awaits you with nasty, big, pointy teeth."--Monty
Python and the Search for the Holy Grail

"I had a dream my life would be, so different from this hell I'm living. So
different now from what it seems...now life has killed the dream I
dreamed..."--Les Miserables

"Before I kill you, I think there is something that you should know. I am you
father's, brother's nephew's cousin's former roommate."--Dark Helmet
"And what does that make us?"--Lone Star
"Absolutely nothing, which is what you are about to beome."--Dark Helmet

"You see Lone Star, evil will always triumph because good is dumb."--Dark
Helmet

"I don't deserve a kiss...it's not my birthday...and I haven't been
good..."--Phantom by Susan Kay

"The unspoken plea echoed in my mind...forget me..."--Phantom by Susan Kay

"Star Trekkin' across the universe
 On the starship Enterprise under Captain Kirk.
 Star Trekkin' across the universe
 Boldly going forward 'cause we can't find reverse."

"Hell is full of burning boats, Nadir. I daresay that's what makes it so bloody
hot."--Phantom

"You must tie her down to the bed and spank her. You must spank her well. And
when you are done you are free to deal with her as you wish. And after you are
done with her, you must spank me."
"And me.....and me.....and me....."
"Yes, you must give us all a good spanking."
"A spanking! A spanking!"
"And after the spanking, the oral sex."--Monty Python and the Search for the
Holy Grail


"I thought our love would be so beautiful
 Somehow we'd make the whole world bright.
 I never knew that fear and hate could be so strong, 
 All they'd leave us were those whispers in the night,
 And still my heart is saying we were right."--from "If I Never Knew You"

 
"It's not my fault!"--Star Wars

"Every now and then 
 We find a special friend
 Who never lets us down.
 Who understands it all,
 Reaches out each time we fall.
 You're the best friend that I've found.
 And I knoq you can't stay
 But part of you will never vever go away...
 Your heart will stay...

 And I'll make a wish for you
 And hope it will come true
 That life will just be kind
 To such a gentle mind.
 And if you lose your way
 Think back on yesterday
 Remember me this way...
 Remember me this way...

 I don't need eyes to see
 The love you bring to me
 No matter where I go.
 And I know that you'll be there
 Forevemore a part of me
 From anywhere
 I'll always care

 I'll make a wish for you
 And hope it will come true
 That life will just be kind
 To such a gentle mind.
 And if you lose your way
 Think back on yesterday
 Remember me this way
 Remember me this way....

 And I'll be right behinnd your shoulder
 Watching you.
 I'll be standing by your side
 In all you do.
 And I will never leave
 As long as you believe...
 You just believe...

 I'll make a wish for you 
 And hope it will come true
 That life will just be kind
 To such a gentle mind
 And if you lose your way
 Think back on yesterday.
 Remember me this way...
 Remember me this way..."
                   --"Remember me this way"

"Angel of music
 Why this torment?
 When wil you see reason?
 Angel of Music
 You decieved me
 I gave my mind blindly..."

"Only he has the power to move me
 And together we'd make the whole world move in sympathy 
 Hope and pray that I am in time.
 Can he see that I will never guess
 That next time I'm gonna answer yes.
 Does he know if he comes back today
 This time I'm gonna make him stay...
 He...only he.... only he has the power
 Every day, every hour,
 He moves me..."--"Only He Has the Power to Move Me"

"Touch me,
 It's so easy to leave me
 All alone with the memories of my days in the sun.
 If you touch me 
 You'll understand what happiness is
 Look, a new day has begun."--"Cats"

"When I give my heart
 It will be completely
 Or I'll never give my heart..."--"When I Fall in Love"

"In the velvet darkness
 Of the blackest night
 Burning bright
 There's a guiding star 
 No matter what or who you are.."--Rocky Horror Picture Show"

"A whole new world
 With new horizons to pursue.
 I'll chase them anywhere
 There's time to spare
 Let me share this whole new world
 With you..."-------"A Whole New World"

"Floating, falling
 Sweet intoxication.
 Touch me, trust me,
 Savor each sensation..."-------"The Music of the Night"

"Little Lotte thought of everything and nothing
 Her father promised her that he would send her the Angel of Music
 Her father promised her..."----------"Phantom"

"Farewell my fallen idol
 And false friend
 One by one I've watched
 Illusions shattered."------"Phantom"

TAK

"No thoughts within her head
 But thoughts of joy.
 No dreams within her heart
 But dreams of love..."-------"Phantom"

"You have come here
 In pursuit of your deepest urge
 In pursuit of that wish which till now
 Has been silent...
 Silent...
 I have brought you
 That our passions may fuse and merge.
 In your mind you've already succumed to me
 Dropped all defenses completely succumed to me.
 And now you are here with me
 No second thoughts.
 You've decided...
 Decided...

 Past the point of no return
 No backward glances.
 The games we've played till now 
 Are at an end.
 Past all thoughts of "if" or "when",
 Abandon thought and let the
 Dream descend.
 What raging fire shall flood the soul?
 What rich desire unlocks its door?
 What sweet seduction lies before us?
 Past the point of no return
 The final threshold 
 What warm, unspoken secrets 
 Will we learn,
 Beyond the point of no return...
 
 You have brought me
 To that moment where words run dry
 To that moment where speech disappears 
 Into silence...
 Silence...
 I have come here
 Hardly knowing the reason why
 In my mind I've already imagined
 Our bodies entwining 
 Defenseless and silent
 And now I am here with you
 No second thoughts
 I've decided...
 Decided...
 
 Past the point of no return
 No going back now 
 Our passion-play has now
 At last begun.
 Past the point of right or wrong
 One final question
 How long should we two wait
 Before we're one? 
 When will the blood begin to race?
 The sleeping bud burst into bloom?
 When will the flames, at last,
 Consume us?

 Past the point of no return
 The final threshold
 The bridge is crossed so 
 Stand and watch it burn
 We've passed the point of no return..."
                                        ------------"Point of No Return"

MARIUS
A heart full of love
A heart full of song
I'm doing everything all wrong
Oh God, for shame
I do not even know your name
Dear Mad'moiselle
Won't you say?
Will you tell?

COSETTE
A heart full of love
No fear, no regret.

MARIUS
My name is Marius Pontmercy

COSETTE
And mines Cosette

MARIUS
Cosette, I don't know what to say

COSETTE
Then make no sound

MARIUS
I am lost

COSETTE
I am found!

MARIUS
A heart fulll of light

BOTH 
A night bright as day

MARIUS
And you must never go away
Cosette, Cosette!

COSETTE
This is a chain we'll never break

MARIUS
Do I dream?

COSTTE
I'm awake!

MARIUS
A heart full of love

EPONINE
He was never mine to lose

COSETTE
A heart full of you

EPONINE
Why regret what could not be?

MARIUS
A single look and then I knew

EPONINE
These are words he'll never say

COSETTE
I knew it too

EPONINE
Not to me...

MARIUS
From today

EPONINE
Not to me, not for me..
 
COSETTE
Everyday

COSETTE & MARIUS
And it isn't a dream
Not a dream
After all.

EPONINE
His heart is full of love
He will never
Feel this way.
             -----------------"A Heart Full of Love"


"And now I'm all alone again
 Nowhere to turn, no one to go to.
 Without a home, without a friend
 Without a face to say hello to.
 And now the night is near
 Now I can make believe he's here.

 On my own
 Pretending he's beside me.
 All alone, I walk with him till morning.
 Without him
 I feel his arms around me,
 And when I lose my way I close my eyes
 And he has found me. 
 In the rain
 The pavement shines like silver
 All the lights are misty in the river.
 In the darkness
 The trees are full of starlight
 And all I see is him and me
 Forever and forever.

 And I know it's only in my mind.
 That I'm talking to myself and not to him.
 And although I know that he is blind
 Still I say there's a way for us.

 I love him
 But when the night is over
 He is gone, and the river's just a river.
 Without him
 The world around me changes
 The trees are bare and everywhere
 The streets are full of strangers.
 
 I love him
 But everyday I'm learning.
 All my life, I've only been pretending.
 Without me
 His world will go on turning
 A world that's full of happiness that I have
 Never known!

 I love him...
 I love him...
 I love him,
 But only on my own..."
            ---------------------"On My Own"


"I'm here 
 The Phantom of the Opera..."

"There is a castle
 On a cloud.
 I like to go there
 In my sleep.
 Aren't any floors for
 Me to sweep,
 Not in my castle
 On a cloud.

 There is a room
 That's full of toys.
 There are a hundred
 Boys and girls.
 Nobody shouts or
 Talks too loud,
 Not in my castle
 On a cloud.

 There is a lady
 All in white,
 Holds me and sings
 A lullabye.
 She's nice to see and
 She's soft to touch.
 She says, "Cosette,
 I love you very much."

 I know a place where
 No one's lost.
 I know a place where
 No one cries.
 Crying at all is
 Not allowed.
 Not in my castle on a cloud."
                      ---------------"Castle on a Cloud"


"Master of the house
 Isn't worth me spit.
 Comforter, philosopher,
 And life-long shit.
 Cunning little brain,
 Regular Votaire.
 Thinks he's quite a lover, but
 There's not much there.
 What a cruel trick of nature
 Landed me with such a louse.
 God knows how I've lasted
 Living with this bastard in the house."
                            ------------------"Master of the House"

CHRISTINE
In sleep he sang to me
In dreams he came.
That voice which calls to me
And speaks my name.
And do I dream again
For now I find.
The Phantom of the Opera is there,
Inside my mind.

PHANTOM
Sing once again with me,
Our strange duet.
My power over you
Grows stringer yet.
And though you turn from me
To glance behind
The Phantom of the Opera is there
Inside your mind.

CHRISTINE
Those who have seen your face
Draw back in fear.
I am the mask you wear
   
PHANTOM
It's me they hear

CHRISTINE/PHANTOM
Your/My spirit and my/your voice 
In one combined
The Phantom of the Opera is there
Inside my/your mind.

VOICES
He's here
The Phantom of the Opera
Beware 
The Phatom of the Opera

PHANTOM
In all your fantasies
You always knew
That man and mystery

CHRISTINE
Were both in you

PHANTOM/CHRISTINE
And in this labyrinth
Where night is blind
The Phantom of the Opera is there/here
Inside your/my mind.

PHANTOM
Sing my Angel of Music

CHRISTINE
Ah!

PHANTOM
Sing!

CHRISTINE
Ah!
Ah!

PHANTOM
Sing for me...

CHRISTINE
Ah!

PHANTOM
Sing my Angel of Music...

CHRISTINE
Ah!
Ah!

PHANTOM
SING FOR ME!!!!

CHRISTINE
AHHHH!!!!!!!


"I have brought you
 To the seat of sweet music's throne.
 To this kingdom where
 All must pay homage 
 To music...
 Music...

 You have come here
 For one purpose and one alone.
 Since the moment I 
 First heard you sing
 I have need you with me to 
 Serve me, to sing 
 For my music...
 My music..."


"The line must be drawn here.
 This far, no futher.
 And I will make them pay
 for what they've done!"
                       -----------First Contact


"Twisted every way
 What answer can I give?
 Am I to risk my life
 To win the chance to live?
 Can i betray that man 
 Who once inspired my voice?
 Do I become his prey?
 Do I have any choice?
 He kills without a thought.
 He murders all that's good.
 I know I can't refuse
 And yet i wish I could
 Oh God if I agree,
 What horrors wait for me
 In this the Phantom's opera?"
                         ----------"Twisted Every Way"


"Heart, don't fail me now. 
 Courage, don't desert me.
 Don't turn back now that we're here.
 People always say
 Life is full of choices
 No one ever mentions fear.
 Or how the world can seem so vast,
 On a journey...to the past.
 
 Somewhere down this road
 I know someone's waiting
 Years of dreams just can't be wrong.
 Arms will open wide
 I'll be safe and wanted
 Back home where I belong.
 Well, starting now I'm learning fast,
 On this journey...to the past.

 Home, love, family...
 Once I must have had them too.
 Home, love, family...
 I will never be complete until I find you...

 One step at a time
 One hope then another
 Who knows where this road may go?
 Back to who I was.
 On to find my future
 Things my heart still needs to know.

 Yes let this be a sign.
 Let this road be mine.
 Let it lead me to my past.
 And bring me home...at last."



"Dancing bears
 Painted wings, 
 Things I almost remember.
 And a song
 Someone sings
 Once upon a December.

 Someone holds me safe and warm.
 Horses prance through a silver storm.
 Figures dancing gracefully,
 Across my memory.

 Someone holds me safe and warm.
 Horses prance through a silver storm.
 Figures dancing gracefully,
 Across my memory.
 
 Far away,
 Long ago
 Glowing dim as an ember
 Things my heart used to know
 Things it yearns to remember.

 And a song 
 Someone sings
 Once upon a December."

"Think of me
 Think of me fondly,
 When we've said goodbye.
 Remember me,
 Once in awhile.
 Please promise me you'll try.
 When you find
 That once again you long
 To take your heart back and be free,
 If you ever find a moment 
 Spare a thought for me.

 We never said 
 Our love was evergreen 
 Or as unchanging as the seas,
 But if you can still remember 
 Stop and think of me.
 
 Think of all the things we've shared and seen.
 Don't think about the things which might have been.
 
 Think of me
 Think of me waking,
 Silent and resigned.
 Imagine me
 Trying to hard to 
 Put you from my mind.
 Recall those days,
 Look back on aall those times,
 Think of the things we never knew. 
 There will never be a day when 
 I won't think of you.

 We never said 
 Our love was evergreen
 Or as unchanging as the seas
 But please promise me that sometimes
 You will think
 Of 
 Me!!!!!"
      ------------"Think of Me"


"We were strangers
 Starting out on a journey.
 Never dreaming
 What we'd have to go through.
 Now here we are
 And I'm suddenly standing
 At the beginning with you.

 No one told me
 I was going to find you.
 Unexpected
 What you did to my heart.
 When I lost hope
 You were there to remind me
 This is the start...

 (chorus)
 Life is a road
 And I wanna keep going.
 Love is a river 
 I wanna keep flowing.
 Life is a road
 Now and forever
 Wonderful journey.
 I'll be there when the world stops turning
 I'll be there when the storm is through.
 In the end I wanna be standing
 At the beginning with you.

 We were strangers
 On a crazy adventure.
 Never dreaming 
 How our dreams would come true.
 Now here we stand
 Unafrais of the future,
 At the beginning with you.

 chorus

 I knew there was somebody somewhere,
 Like me alone in the dark.
 Now my dream will live on
 I've been waiting so long
 Nothing's gonna tear us apart.

 chorus

 Life is a road 
 And I wanna keep going.
 Love is a river
 I wanna keep going on...
 Starting out on a journey...
 Life is a road
 And I wanna keep going.
 Love is a river 
 I wanna keep going.
 In the end I wanna be standing
 At the begining with you..."


"None of us can choose where we will love...."


"My mind has touched the farthest horizons of mortal imagination and reaches
ever outward to embrace infinity. There is no knowledge beyond my
comprehension, no art or skill upon this entire planet that lies beyond the
mastery of my hand...But as long as I live, no woman will ever look upon me
in love."


"By the way
 Did I hear you say
 If some night I seemed too lonely
 You would stay.
 Oh and by the way
 Have I told you yet that only recently
 He moved out on me.
 Took the towels we stole
 From some motel in Tennessee. 
 He was gone 
 Long before he really left, I knew it.
 By the way 
 He began to say,
 "Love takes time
 I'm in a hurry."
 Anyway
 That's all yesterday
 Let's get back to us. Why worry
 If he tries
 Calling by and by?
 Oh and by the way
 I thought I mentioned you could stay.
 'neath the lights
 You don't look a thing like he did, 
 And it's time to play
 It's another day
 We can't we make love
 Fall by the way..."


"This is the day that the Lord has made.
 Let us rejoice and be glad.
 This is the day that the Lord has made.
 Let us rejoice, let us rejoice,
 And be glad."


"I have loved but one man in my life. And I have lost him twice."
                                ---------Cyrano de Bergerac


Music is a state of mind. Of course, so is insanity.


"Amazing grace
 how sweet the sound.
 That saved a wretch
 like me.
 I once was lost
 But now I'm found. 
 Was blind but now
 I see."


"Engage."


"I like mine with lettuce and tomato
 Heinz 57 and french fried potatoes.
 A big koshier pickle and a cold draft beer, 
 Well good God Almighty, which way do I steer from a 
 Cheesburger in paradise."


"My church has but one temple,
   Wide as the world is wide,
 Set with a million stars,
    Where a million hearts abide.

 My church has no creed to bar
   A single brother man
 But says, "Come thou and worship"
   To every one who can.

 My church has no roof or walls,
   No floor save the beautiful sod--
 For fear, I would seem to limit
   The love of the illimitable God."
                              --------------"My Church" by E.O.G.


"We are the music-makers,
   And we are the dreames of dreams."


      The Highwayman
          Part one
The wind was a torrent of darkness among the gusty 
      trees,
The moon was a ghostly galleon tossed upon cloudy
      seas,
The road was a ribbon of moonlight over the purple
      moor,
And the highwayman came riding--
  Riding--riding--
The highwayman came riding, up to the old inn-door.


(This is going to be an ongoing addition. It is one of my favorite poems
by Alfred Noyes)


Seek and ye shall find.

I am not crazy because I am a music major. I am crazy because I love being a
music major.


PHANTOM
Insolent boy,
This slave of fashion,
Basking in your glory.
Ignorant fool
This brave young suitor,
Sharing in my triumph.

CHRISTINE
Angel I hear you
Speak, I listen.
Stay by my side
Guide me.
Angel my soul was weak
Forgive me.
Enter at last 
Master.

PHANTOM
Flattering child you shall know me.
See why in shadow I hide.
Look at your face in the mirror,
i am there inside.

CHRISTINE
Angel of music
Guide and guardian.
Stay by my side
Guide me.
Angel of Music
Hide no longer
Come to me 
Strange angel.


"Look at me a woman.
 Calm and in control.
 No silly girl whose
 head's always turning.
 Nobody would guess that
 deep inside my soul,
 a brand new flame is burning.
 
 Only he
 has the power to move me
 And together we'd make the whole world move in sympathy.
 he with him I would survive.

 Only he 
 has the power to move me
 Take me, hold me, mold me, change me, and improve me.
 It's not funny any more.
 Only he can make my burden light
 Only he can make the wrong seem right.
 Only he can make the shadows bright
 And make the darkness gleam in white.
 He, only he.
 Only he has the power to move me.

 All the nights I've wasted
 Dreaming of the time
 When I'd discover the one to guide me.
 Searching the horizon
 Didn't realize
 that all the time he was beside me.
 
 Only he
 has the power to move me.
 And together we'd make the whole world move in sympathy
 It's mot funny any more.
 Can he see that I will never guess
 That next time i'm gonna answer yes
 Does he know if he comes back today
 This time I'm gonna make him stay.
 Only he has the power to move me
 Hope and pray that I am in time.
 Only he can make my burden light
 Only he can make the wrong seem right 
 Only he has the power every day, every hour
 he moves me."


the following is a joke that may be offensive to some people. It was told to
me by a friend back home in Murfreesboro to make me laugh while I was
hospitalized. If you are offended by Catholic jokes (like my wonderful
boyfriend Jeremy) or use of the word "fuck" please skip past this little joke. Thank you. I am not
responsible for any hurt feelings.

There was once a great flood and all the people crowded onto a boat but the
boat started to sink. There was also a Methodist minister, a Baptist
preacher and a Catholic priest. They had a small boat that would save them. The
Methodist minister said, "hurry into the boat." The Baptist preacher said,
"What about the children?" The minister said, "Fuck the children." The priest
said, "Hmmm....do we have the time?"

I thought it was funny. But then, I am a music major. I find green jello funny.


"Why did you threaten to strike a spirit? You still don't understand, do you?
You acknowledged her, Broud, she has beaten you. You did everything you could
to her, you even cursed her. She's dead, and still she has won. She was a
woman, and she had more courage than you, Broud, more determination, more
self-control. She was more man than you are. Ayla should have been the son of
my mate."  ---------Clan of the Cave Bear


Geocities doesn't like me anymore. I have a new web page through Angelfire. One
of my stories is slowly being put on it. It's at 
http://www.angelfire.com/tn/erikslair            check it out if you have time.


Okay everyone, most of you know but for those that don't I have been SICK. And
I mean, on my deathbed sick. I was hospitalized and that really sucked. But I
am better, just really weak so don't be too rough if you happen to see me.
Well, I just wanted to inform everyone of that.


Toga! Toga! Toga!


I just thought of something. I discovered that I find men in kilts quite
attractive. I don't know why. Maybe it's that quarter Scottish in me. But
the guy that I even think about marrying has to look good in one. It's a thing. 
:)


Okay, I just got through with my AT final. I am soooooo happy that it's over.
My brain is fried. Time for sleep. 


"Say you'll share with me
 one love, one lifetime. 
 Lead me, save me from my solitude.
 Say you want me with you here, beside you.
 Anywhere you go let me go to.
 Christine, that's all I ask of you!"


"Through early morning fog I see
 Visions of the things to be.
 Pains that are withheld for me
 I realize and I can see that

 Suicide is painless
 It brings on many changes.  
 And I can take it or leave it if I please.

 The game of life is hard to play.
 I hold the wrong card everyday.
 I'm gonna lose it anyway
 So this is all I have to say, that

 Suicide is painless
 It brings on many changes.
 I can take it or leave it if I please.

 The sword of time will pierce our skin
 It doesn't hurt when it begins.
 But as it works its way on in
 The pain grows stronger, watch it burn. And
 
 Suicide is painless
 It brings on many changes
 And I can take it or leave it if I please.

 An old man once came up to me.
 And wanted answers to 
 is it to be or not to be
 And I replied, "Oh why ask me?" Cause,

 Suicide is painless
 It brings on many changes.
 And I can take it or leave it if I please."


Well, it is the start of a new semester and I am dealing with it so far.
Um....not much to say about it right now. I am now a vocal education major
without the education classes. I am going to change to vocal performane when
the degree is offered. I just thought that I would take time to relax and throw
in how I felt. 


Does anyone but me like the music from the movie Terminator? I have the
soundtrack and one of my favorite pieces is the window conversation/love scene.
It is absolutely beautiful.


Welcome to my mind! How are you? I am 100% insane!


Okay, time to babble about a few things on my mind. First, I may move to
Berkley this summer. I don't know. But I am going to drive to California with
two friends this summer. Next, I am a little sad. Mostly because i look for
love and never seem to find it. But that's okay. One day I will. One day.
Third, I want to warn anyone who might even want to talk to me that i am a
weapons fanatic. I am also a good shot. So if you hate weapons of any type, you
might want to avoid me. Well. That is all for now. More rambling later.


It's me again. I simply haven't had time to write. But I wanted to say that I
will try to add more as i find time. Okay, I have idea. Thatnks to Dennis for
bringing this thought into my mind. Renn Faire is comeing up and he mentioned
the fact that he wished there was one here. Well why not? He and I thought out
a little of it. If you think that it may be a good idea, please write and let
me know. I love opinions.   :)


I have news for everyone who actually has the patience to get this far. I will,
most likey, not be here next semester. My family will be moving to Southern
California in the summer and I will probably go with them. So my new goal is to
make this plan file a monster before I am gone. So bear with me while I find
meaningless things to fill as much space as i can.


I think I think too much. But when I stop and think about it, if I really
thought as much as I think I do, I think I would be so full of thoughts as to
not think clearly, and clearly I think thoughts of clear thinking. And even if
I do think I think contant thoughts of thinking to be true, wouldn't that be
another thought to add to the endless thoughts I think; that is, if my thinking
was truly thoughtless. I think. But what if I had thought I think too much
about thinking thoughts of endless things, what thinkable harm can that be? I
think I'm really going to have to stop and think this through more throughly.
What do you think?


"Men do not roar. Women roar. Then they hurl heavy objects and claw at you."


"Things are only impossible until they are not"


"If you can't take a little bloody nose, maybe you ought to go back home and
crawl under your bed. It's not safe out here. It's wonderous, with treasures to
satiate desires both subtle and gross. But it's not for the timid."


"And I told him what I thought of him, his pals, his planet, and I possibly
made some passing reference to his questionable parentage."


"He's biting that female!"


"It's a good day to die and the day is not over yet."


"Not even a bite on the cheek for old time's sake?"


"Sir, I protest. I am not a merry man!"


"Motives, who cares for motives?"


"THERE ... ARE ... FOUR ... LIGHTS!!!"


BTW, for anyone who really cares, all those last quotes are from various
episodes of Star Trek: The Next Generation. 


Now it's time for some more babble, mostly because I just got really bored. I
was wondering if anyone else has a love for music, man-made or by nature. I
would love to share ideas with someone on the meaning of song. 


More junk from my head. I am now a general curriculum major. Since I am moving
to California, I decided to relax my schedule and save myself from getting too
stressed out. 


And for anyone who knows me, I am a hopeless romantic and I thought that I
would share some thoughts with you. I have decided that when i do find love, it
will be with one who feels as I do about the music. In essence, a Phantom to
Christine. I don't know if I will ever find that one, but I hope so. It's so
hard to find anyone who cares the way I do about song. But hopefully I will
find that someone soon.


"Father once spoke of an angel.
 I used to dream he'd appear.
 Now as I sing, I can sense him.
 And I know he's here."


And I wait for the silence
that I know must fall.
Broken only be the sad sound
of a lonely lover's call.


FANTINE
Come with me
where chains will never
bind you.
All your grief
at last, at last
behind you.
Lord in heaven
look down on him
in mercy

VALJEAN
Forgive me all my trespasses
and take me to your glory.

FANTINE/EPONINE
Take my hand
I'll lead you to 
salvation.
Take my love
for love is 
everlasting.

FANTINE/EPONINE/VALJEAN
And remember
the truth that once
was spoken,
To love another person
is to see the face of God.


"It's a rainy night in Georgia. 
 Such a rainy night in Georgia.
 It feels like it's raining all over the world.
 It feels like it's raining all over the world."


"I thought we are were
 the children of God.
 God help the outcasts.
 The children of God."


I just realized something. I never once really said what I like and dislike.
Well, here it goes:

I am a Virgo, but I am one of the messiest(sp) people you will will ever find.
I am only organized when it isn't my stuff or my life. I like romantic
evenings, looking at the stars, singing in duets, sitting in silence, walking
on the beach at night,and dancing in the rain. But I am also very independant
in my nature. I can be very cold and quiet, and even arrogant-seeming. But if
you get to know me i do have a soft side. The independant thing is to keep me
from being hurt. I know that one day I will open up to someone and I won't be
near as cold. I hate people who try to repress my independant side without
accepting it as a part of me. I also don't like country music, clingy people,
English, people who propose marriage in the second week of dating (don't laugh, it has
happened to me), and people who lie. I can tolerate but would prefer not to,
people who sit on the computer chatting when someone else needs to check mail,
and quite a few other things. But unfortunately most people don't realize that
I am a romantic because I only show it when I feel it is right, and that isn't
often.


"have you forgotten your angel?"


RAOUL
No more talk of darkness.
Forget these wide-eyed fears,
I'm here
Nothing can harm you.
My words will warm and calm you.
Let me be your freedom.
Let daylight dry your tears.
I'm here
With you, beside you.
To guard you and to guide you.

CHRISTINE
Then say you'll love me
every waking moment.
Turn my head with talk of summertime.
Say you need me with you now and always.
Promise me that all you say is true.
That's all I ask of you.

RAOUL
Let me be your shelter
Let me be your light,
You're safe.
No one will find you.
Your fears are far behind you.

CHRISTINE
All I want is freedom.
A world with no more night. 
And you,
always beside me.
To hold me and to hide me.

RAOUL
Then say you'll share with me
one love, one lifetime.
Let me lead you from your solitude.
Say you want me with you 
here beside you.
Anywhere you go let me go to.
Christine, that's all I ask of you.

CHRISTINE
Say you'll love me every waking moment.
Say the word and I will follow you.
Say you want me with you 
here, beside you.
Say you love me...

RAOUL
You know I do...

BOTH
Love me,
that's all I ask of you.

(musical interlude)

BOTH
Anywhere you go let me go to.
Love me,
that's all I ask of you.
                ---------------"All I Ask of You"


Here is a rough draft of a story that I wrote over the summer. It is Phantom
based and takes place after the end of the musical. 

   She cried silent tears. Tears of sorrow and loss. Tears of love torn apart.
Raoul put his arm around her in the carriage.
     "Shhh...it will be alright, Christine."
   HIs soft words did nothing to calm her. The the sobs ripped from her throat
in an anguished scream and salty tears flowed down her cheeks. Christine
thought nothing of the man who tried to comfort her; her mind was still aching
from the emotional rip from the man she loved. Not even an hour agao she had
been pulled away from Erik, sent away by his concern and his love for her. And
because of that love she had obeyed.
     "Erik...," she whispered.
   That word cut through Raoul's heart. She loves him, he thought. More than
she will ever love me. He knew that he should let her go, let her return. But
his arm tightend around her shoulders. No, I fought that monster for her and I
will not let her return to him.
   Christine lapsed into a fitful sleep a few moments later.
             *******************************************
   It was their third month in the small house. Raoul felt comfortable but he
was worried about Christine. She was quiet and always letting her mind drift.
She would stare out a window or write in a small journal. Her beautiful lips no
longer parted in laughter or turned up into a smile. 
   On this particualr night there was a storm raging outside.
   Christine jumped at the sound of a loud thunderclap. She put down her pen
and walked to her front door. Her small, frail hand paused above the handle as
her eyes flicked around the room. It was empty. Raoul was in the kitchen fixing
dinner. Without another hesitation, Christine stepped outside of her protective
home and into the fury of the storm. The wind swirled her hair about her face
but she did not notice. The her ears twitched slightly. Music...music that she
had not heard for months...
     "Fate links thee to me, forever and a day..."
   The wedding march from Romeo and Juliet. Erik used to sing that to her.
Christine walked toward a small cliff that overlooked a valley. The wind
increased its intensity and the music increased it's volume. At the edge, her
feet stopped. The wind died slightly and so did the voice. Her eyes closed, her
mouth opened and she whispered,
     "Erik, I am here..."
   And the wind answered.
     "I am your Angel of Music...
      Come to me Angel of Music..."
   Raoul walked into the front room carrying Christine's dinner when he noticed
that she was no longer there. He looked around in confusion.
     "Christine?"
   A spatter of rain hit his face and he looked for the source.
     "The door...." He bolted out of the house screaming, "Christine!"
   There she stood, soaked to the skin, only inches from the precipice. And she
was smiling. Raoul walked toward her slowly, afraid of startling her.
     "Christine, come back from the edge..., "his voice trailed off as she
turned her face toward him. A pale, white hand reached for his. 
     "He has come for me, Raoul. And I am leaving with him. 
   Raoul looked at her, puzzled. "Him?" Then he heard the music, music he
thought he'd left behind. His music. "No! I won't let youleave. You must be
imagining things. Erik is dead." Her hand released his and feel to rest at her
side.
     "You cannot stop me, Raoul. Erik is truly an angel and soon I shall fly
with him."
   Lightning flashed and the thunderclap caused Raoul's ears to ring. When his
senses were back to normal, he heard the voice."
     "I am your Angel of Music...
      Come to me Angel of Music..."
   Caought up in memories of the past, he shook a fist at the sky. "Erik! You
cannot have her. You sent her away, monster, I will not let her go!"
   Yet the voice continued to sing. Christine looked at Raoul with the saddest
expression that he had ever seen in her eyes. 
     "Goodbye, Raoul. Please do not forget me." She sang softly, "Think of
me...think of me fondly...." Christine turned back toward the cliff and lifted
her face to the sky. Rushing wind howled and the music bacame louder.
Christine's voice cut through the storm and joined with another, powerful
voice.
     "Past the point of no return,
      the final threshold...."
   Raoul reached for her, but even as his hand brushed the fabric of her dress,
shep lept into the air, still singing.
     "The bridge is crossed 
      so stand and watch it burn..."
   Raoul cried out, "Christine!" But it was too late. He fell to the ground and
looked over the edge. Christine's white form lay on the rocks a hundred feet
below. Music echoed impossibly through the dying wind. 
     "We've passed the point 
      of no return."
             *******************************************
   Raoul rushed down the hill, falling and stumbling, trying to reach the
bottom. Christine's broken body lay limp at the foot of the cliff. He dashed to
her and fell to his knees, barely registering the pain.
     "Oh Christine," he cried, cradling her head. "Christine..."
     "Christine," an echo replied. He looked up and adressed the calm, gray
sky.
     "Erik, you finally got what you fought so hard for. You took her away from
me even after your death. She loved you more than she loved life. Take care of
her, Erik."
   A small beam of sunlight burst from the overcast sky and shone down upon
Christine's lovely form, and for a moment he heard two voices. The voices of
angels.
     "Love me,
      that's all I ask of you..."
               *******************************************


That's it. Just remember that it is only my first draft. Hope you enjoyed it.
********************************************************************************
********************************************************************************

Now this is a story that was based on a single RPG session. It was so memorable
that I wrote it down and expanded it. 

                             A Jedi's Tale:
                              Ayla's Story

Historian's note: This begins shortly after the destruction of the first Death
Star.

                                Part 1
   
     "What do you mean, 'No more room'?"
     "Just that, miss. We are booked full."
   Panic flows through me and not even a Jedi calming technique quells it. A
blaster bolt ricochets above the pilot's head. The Bith emits a squak of alrm
and dives to the floor. I bolt out of the docking bay, pausing only to make
sure that the Bith is uninjured. My ratty cloak and brown hair billow behind me
as I dash down the streets. Suddenly a man holding a blaster appears in front
of me and takes aim. Gathering the Force, I leap over him and a crowd of
people. For just a moment I have the sensation of flying. Then, with a jolt, I
hit the ground. A voice follows me.
     "You can't run forever, Ayla!"
   A flash of the future and I know he is right. Even so I keep on running. The
bag that I carry over my shoulder is getting heavy. I turn into an alley and
lean against a wall, breathing heavily. Sliding to the dirt I set the bag down
and check to make sure that the gold ribbon is still tied around my wrist. As I
touch it, memories come unbidden to me. Memories of the past. 
   I see my parents, happy and smiling at me for I was a good child. Then
their expressions turn to sadness as my pet slowly dies. Not knowing any better
I use the strange power that I only heard about in bad stories to heal it. Yhen
I am exiled. Alone at the age of ten. Five years fly by in a blur until I end
up on a dusty planet, poor and lonely. Suddenly, like an angel, Kris appears
and takes me in. He is a seventeen year-old Jedi master and he begins to teach
me. Years go by and I am eighteen, a Jedi knight, staring into the eyes of my
dying teacher and friend. Then I am in our house, crying as I pack a few of his
belongings, including a lightsaber, and I take the gold ribbon that he usually
bound his hair back with and tie it around my wrist. More time passes and I
catch glimpses of my flight from Imperials and various bounty hunters. Finally
I reach the present and i wipe the tears from my eyes.
   I open my mind completely and I feel the bounty hunter's, Storm, mins
closing in on my location. Quickly I get to my feet and resume my flight. Up
ahead I spot a cantina of sorts. Increasing my speed, I burst into the building
and stop short. There is no back door. My mind searches for someone that I
might know. Two people at the bar catch my attention. A Jedi, young and
inexperienced, and a young, attractive human man beside him. Before I can ask
for assitance Storm walks in and locates me immediately. As he moves toward me,
the man next to the Jedi kicks out his leg. His foot connects with Storm's knee
and for a momment he totters. The man, on the other hand, winces in pain and
grips his knee. Strom turns his glare on the now injured man. 
     "Saragin Lucian. I've heard about you."
     "Oh really? I hope it's good." 
******************************************************************************
This story is going to take awhile to type and my fingers are tired.


Okay...so life isn't as bad as everyone says it is.Maybe if I just give it a
chance in a dark room, life perks up.  


Well, I am a person who tries to stay happy, but it seems like so many things
go wrong that I can't seem to find something that works right. And that sux.
But like I said, maybe if I let go and accept things as they are, then they
might actually turn out better than I expected. Not always, but sometimes. And
it is those few times that I keep on striving for. 


Oh, and everybody, I get my braces off on Friday!!! Four hours of laughing
gas!!! But I am excited about it. They have been on for about 3 1/2 years. Far
too long...   :)  


Hello once again. It is the start of a new week and, perhaps a new me. I think
that this will be a good week. Even with the rain. So let's keep on going and
pray that I can keep finding stuff to put in here. :)


Okay....what to babble about for a few minutes.....so far my week hasn't been
bad. Just a little sad. I feel like Data in "First Contact". Try to cope with
emotions and I just fel like saying, "I no longer want these emotions!" But
unlike him, I can't just turn them off. I wish that I could but, then again, I
want to enjoy them for as long as possible. I just don't know what to do about
them. It is a most interesting sensation. Right now, I don't think that I will
tell what it is. Maybe once I get sort of comfortable with it I will tell the
world, but for now I keep it to myself. Hopefully though, I will finally be
able to put this emotion to use in a good way.


"All your music,
 beautiful music...
 you are my life
 and you are music..."


My true love,
lost in a shadowplay
I will find a way.
Through fear and doubt
I will find you out.
In the secret places you hide about.

No my love
more than a fantasy,
you must be for me.
I'll hear your voice
and I'll see your brow
and I'll know your face like your music.

Can you hear me now?
Can we make a vow?
Ever to be faithful
I will show you how.

My true love
open and turn to me
what no one can see.
Your deepest dreams
in you darkest nights.
and your eyes like lights ever burning bright.
I will hear your voice
I'll see you brow.
Let me know your face, 
let me know it now!


I bought a book at Wal-Mart last semester and I thought thatI mention it
quickly. It's called "If: questions for the game of life" And all of the
questions in there start with "if". One of my favorites is, "If you had to have
a musical instrument represent you, what would it be?" My friends and I have
assumed that this means traditional instruments, saying a cd player doesn't
count. But I have heard many different instruments and they are all appropriate
in their own way. Mine would have to be a piano. I think that the piano can
produce such a variety of emotions that it reminds me of how I am. So, if you
had to have a musical instrument represent you, what would it be? Write me and
tell me. i am curious as to what people think is their instrument.





There will be more to come each day. So always keep checking. Any ideas or
opinions are welcome. :)

                           Angel of Music  

P.S. Sleep is actually a good thing....I just can't get enough of it...but I
still need more...oh well....
P.P.S.S. It is amazing how thoughts change as your life changes. Small events
can cause large problems or wonderous events.
P.S.s. I happen to like South Park as well. I think that it is a great show
especially if you need a good laugh.
p.s. I went to Search this past weekend and so I am feeling really good now. If
you happen to see me and wonder why I am acting so strange, it is because I am
much less stressed out.  :)                                            
pppppssssss HELLO WORLD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
