From: TTU::CMB1033      "Christopher M Berry" 26-JAN-2000 01:55:28.32
To:   TTU::CHOOD
CC:
Subj: RE: j:  depression (and damnit connie, fix your email)

I'm much better today, else I would not have sent that flurry of
emails before the snows. Yesterday was a watershed moment, and I
realized after a discussion in 664 that I was forming at least part of
my identify from my expectations of others and the world around me.
Once I realized that, it was a simple mater of time and thinking which
put me back on course. It's a matter of framing things in a different
manner I think...the development of an agony to construct the self
from a more holistic social body. The only "I" I have exists through
participation in larger bodies of action. I wonder really if this
isn't akin to a Kholberg 5 shift (though it is more likely a
re-affirmation of a longing for peer acceptance). But it is akin to
the K-5 shift b/c it involves a complex movement of values from a
small social scale to a large social scale. Yet it also has shades of
Eliot's "I am here to kneel where prayer has been valid." This body of
action is my social role, connected through a network (of tradition?)
of others, acting together in concert through society. It would be the
same if I were a cashier, or if I were a laywer.

Which is not to say that the social role defines the self, rather that
I must act in the way that *I* act in an exchange with society.

At any rate...after realizing all that (and more than I can explain
really), there was nothing to gain by sealing myself off anymore. I'm
here to help people, regardless of my loneliness and longing for
friendship. The only way I can solve those problems is through
interaction...I guess it's my own form of "if not fed, be bread."

And I was happy today. I organized means of meeting people (the movie,
which alas the snow drove me away from), and a means through which I
could help other and in return be helped (asking for help with new
books). I was also unusually active on the various webboards. In
short, I made myself available and people came. It wasn't great
intellectual discourse, but that's what I have Kurt for anyway. Above
all I felt as though I accomplished something significant today.

On a different note, I've not heard back from any grad schools. But
I'm not honestly expecting to (other than in the negative). So I'm
going to apply to Knoxville and hope I'm not required to get my MA
here (which is the disaster level possibility). My course of greatest
hope comes from getting an MA there and moving on to better fields for
my Ph.D. But if worse comes to worse, I'll have no other choise but to
go here, as distasteful (and potentially career ruining) as that will
be. There's no real escaping my past, alas. My only hope was to have
waited four years and had my records expunged, which I didn't do
because I didn't want to wade through those beginning classes again.
I'll live with it...I don't really have any choice.

My graduate classes really are going well so far. They are a little
different from the regular fare in that I can actually pull in all the
extra reading I do and it doesn't seem as odd as it would have in an
undergrad course. (Although Kurt seems a bit taken aback at how
quickly I can absorb material, but it's fun to see people squirm a
bit..if I can allow myself that small conceit.) As I"ve noted I"ve
been able to do a little thinking about how identity is formed through
social exchange. In Dr. Laird's class I did some thinking about
cultural mediation...how dominant cultures embed themselves into
established social hierarchies (we were reading Beowulf), and how
those hierarchies are reflected in the individual (through the
audience of Beowulf rather than the characters, poet, or "meaning).
I'm currently wondering if this situation applies to post-colonial
societies (Ireland and India), or if instead it is reversed...but I've
got to think for a bit more (and do quite a bit more reading) before
I'll know.

This is boring you.  I'll quit soon...it's late.

I want to see the pictures from your trip! Have you had time to
develop them? Kelly, at least, seems to have had a great time (and
from what he tells me, so did you).

I hope the ice clears some...I don't want to have to drive on it
because Tech refuses to close. But I'll deal. Talk to you later,

cb

