Mental Health of Students Gets New Push at Harvard

      By CAREY GOLDBERG

     CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Harvard University is planning a sweeping
     upgrade of its mental health services, seeking to weave a better
     net to catch psychologically vulnerable students, whose numbers,
     experts say, seem to be mounting at campuses around the country.

     A Harvard panel has recommended such steps as hiring more
     therapists, extending counseling hours at the university's health
     service, training faculty and residential tutors better on mental
     health problems and even setting aside "safe spaces" in university
     buildings where students can find respite from crisis.

     The plan, which began circulating internally last month and whose
     summary is posted on the World Wide Web at www.provost.harvard.edu
     is just beginning to go into effect, said Harvey V. Fineberg, the
     university provost, who is overseeing it.

     It comes during a suicide-free, murder-free, generally crisis-free
     year for Harvard. But that is just the time to put preventive
     measures in place, Fineberg said, because no one is feeling
     defensive. In the last decade, Harvard, whose undergraduate and
     graduate students number about 18,000, has averaged about one
     suicide a year, and was rocked by a murder-suicide in 1995.

     "Stress levels for students are high at Harvard," the report, based
     on a year of widespread interviews and research, said. "Almost all
     deans of students expressed the belief that their school presented
     the most stressful environment, and emphasized the increasing
     fragility of students and apparent higher incidence of depression
     and serious mental illness."

     In addition, it said, "Across Harvard, the stigma of seeking help
     for emotional problems or mental health concerns is difficult for
     students who are accustomed to performing at the highest levels,"
     and many are "unwilling to confide in tutors and advisers who may
     eventually write graduate school or job recommendations."

     Dr. Paul Summergrad, chairman of the committee that produced the
     analysis and plan said: "It's an attempt to look at mental health
     and support services in a clinical and very broad university
     context. I'm not aware of another study that has done that." The
     basic idea, he said, "is to build an increasingly redundant set of
     services so we can have multiple ways that we can help students
     enter care."

     The U.S. surgeon general's report on mental health released in
     Washington on Monday highlighted how common some mental disorders
     were, Summergrad noted, and the Harvard report addresses, among
     other things, the need to help people make the tricky distinction
     between everyday problems and illness.

     The Harvard report asks, for example: "Is a student's inability to
     finish a paper due to poor study habits, an inappropriate choice of
     major, changing academic interests or obsessive-compulsive
     disorder? Is difficulty living with roommates a cultural adjustment
     or a manifestation of social phobia? Is a change in behavior or
     appearance a struggle for a new sense of self or a reflection of
     incipient schizophrenia?"

     Harvard officials said that for all the prestigious university's
     special pressures, they did not believe students here suffered from
     more psychological problems than elsewhere. Rather, they and others
     said, there has seemed to be a general rise in recent years in
     mental health troubles among students.

     "What the research has shown in the last decade is that we're
     beginning to see an increase in severe problems in college
     students," said Perry C. Francis, president-elect of the American
     College Counseling Association. That situation is happening in
     part, he and others said, because teenagers with psychiatric
     disorders are getting better treatment and thus advancing more
     often to college.

     "Part of it, you could say, is due to modern psychiatric
     medications that allow students to keep certain mental illnesses
     under control," Francis said "The rub, or the issue, is that you're
     finding many colleges or universities ill-prepared to deal with
     their students' mental health, or counseling is seen as just an
     add-on to student services."

     Dr. Heidi Levine, chairwoman of the commission on counseling and
     psychological services of the American College Personnel
     Association, attributed some of the increase in recognized mental
     illness on campus to improved diagnoses.

     "People are receiving treatments earlier," she said, often for
     "some things that maybe in the past we chalked up to adolescent
     moodiness."

     Overall, "people who in the past might never have been able to come
     to college because of serious mental illness are now able to come
     to campus," she said.

     )

     Contributors to the Harvard report emphasized the simple
     statistical fact that, as Fineberg put it, "mental health problems
     are the prime area of vulnerability for young adults."

     Over recent years, said Dr. Michael Jellinek, chief of child
     psychiatry services at Massachusetts General Hospital and a
     professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at Harvard Medical School,
     "there's been more and more attention paid to the mental health
     problems of both college and graduate students."

     Research documents extensive eating disorders among college
     students, he said, and many other serious psychiatric illnesses
     appear around college age, from clinical depression to addictive
     behaviors to schizophrenia.

     "The way I read the report," Jellinek said of the Harvard plan, "it
     emphasized the notion of looking at every aspect of college life to
     make it more supportive," from how dormitories are organized to how
     resident counselors are trained.

   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company
