
October 20, 1998

Old as Society, Social Anxiety Is Yielding Its Secrets
       ______________________________________________________________

     Related Article

       Expanded Coverage of Science and Health
       ______________________________________________________________

      By ERICA GOODE

     Man seeketh in society comfort," Francis Bacon asserted, but you
     could have fooled Robert Suhoza. Gatherings of his fellow humans
     have rarely inspired in Mr. Suhoza a sense of consolation and well
     being. Usually, it has been more like sweating, heart-pounding
     dread.

     Stand up and give a speech to a group of co-workers? He would
     prefer to be trampled by elephants. Make small talk at a cocktail
     party? Just go ahead and shoot him. Introduce himself to a room
     full of strangers? Maybe he'll just come back some other time.

     Suhoza, a 53-year-old Connecticut businessman, has lived with this
     social unease since childhood, fretting and worrying, afraid he
     will say something stupid, afraid people will see how nervous he
     is. At work, he dreaded meetings and sat quietly, praying he would
     not have to speak. He wanted to read a passage of Scripture at his
     niece's wedding, but in the end had to tell her that he just could
     not do it.

     Even answering the phone seemed at times an insurmountable task: He
     knew he should pick up the receiver, but he was paralyzed by not
     knowing who was on the other end, or what the caller wanted.

     Last year, Suhoza finally sought help at the Yale University
     Psychological Services Clinic. To his surprise, he learned that his
     plight had a name -- social phobia or social anxiety disorder, a
     condition attracting increased attention from mental health
     experts, in part because of the availability of new drug treatments
     and novel brain-imaging technologies that are yielding clues to the
     disorder's underlying biology.

     And while Suhoza often felt he was the only human on the planet
     with such a disabling affliction, it turns out he has lots of
     company. National surveys indicate that one in every eight
     Americans meet the diagnostic criteria for social anxiety disorder
     at some point in their lives, making it the third most common
     psychiatric condition. More women suffer from social phobia than
     men, studies show, though men are more likely to seek treatment,
     perhaps because society deems extreme shyness in males less
     acceptable than in females.

     Descriptions of the socially anxious appear throughout history.
     Hippocrates wrote of a man who "through bashfulness, suspicion and
     timorousness will not be seen abroad"; Charles Darwin, exploring
     the evolutionary roots of blushing, described a dinner party given
     in honor of a very shy man. Rising to return the thanks of the
     guests, the man began his speech, gesticulating for emphasis as he
     went along but never actually uttering a single word. "His friends,
     perceiving how the case stood, loudly applauded the imaginary
     bursts of eloquence, whenever his gestures indicated a pause." The
     man later remarked to a friend, Darwin wrote, that he thought the
     speech had gone quite well.

     Only in the last two decades, however, have researchers begun to
     investigate social anxiety disorder in any depth, or to distinguish
     it fully from other psychiatric conditions in which anxiety
     features prominently, like panic disorder and agoraphobia. The
     diagnosis first appeared in the 1980 edition of the official
     Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders; before that,
     all phobias were lumped together.

     Psychiatrists divide those who suffer from social phobia into two
     groups. Some, like Suhoza, experience pervasive anxiety that is
     triggered by a multitude of social situations and interferes with
     their daily lives. For others, the fear is more specific: They may
     be bold as roosters at cocktail parties but fall to pieces when
     they have to deliver a speech or perform in public.

     Dr. Michael Liebowitz, a Columbia University psychiatrist and
     director of the Anxiety Disorders Clinic at New York Psychiatric
     Institute, said he has treated corporate vice presidents so
     frightened of public speaking that they consider abandoning their
     careers just to avoid the podium, and concert musicians who, when a
     performance looms, spend the hours leading up to it shaking and
     vomiting.

     Beyond these two groups is a large, if unquantified, number of
     people who are shy and socially uncomfortable, but not to the
     degree that it impairs their lives. Still, they feel much more at
     ease at a party after the first glass of Cabernet. Or they banter
     confidently with colleagues while running an internal monologue
     that goes something like "O.K., here comes that new guy from
     Department 12. I better say something witty. Jeez, that was stupid.
     Now he probably thinks I'm a boob."

     Some degree of social anxiety, researchers point out, is not only
     normal, but essential. "If you've never been concerned about the
     opinion of others, then you've never been an adolescent," says Dr.
     Richard Heimberg, director of Temple University's Adult Anxiety
     Clinic and developer of a widely used group therapy treatment for
     social phobia. "And if you don't think about it a bit every day,
     you're probably not a very sensitive person."

     Indeed, like the fear of snakes, heights or deep water, social
     anxiety probably has its roots in natural selection. Most animal
     species count among their ranks individuals who are unusually bold
     or extremely timid, and a growing body of evidence suggests these
     temperamental differences are largely genetic.

     In nature, temerity has obvious payoffs: Intrepid animals explore
     new territory. They fight their way to the top of the dominance
     hierarchy, and are first to get the food -- and to snag a desirable
     mate. But timidity also has its advantages. The fearful, though
     they may rank lower in the social order, know when to defer to the
     top brass, and are less likely to be killed picking fights with
     neighborhood toughs. A variety of coping strategies, scientists
     speculate, may allow adaptation to changing environments, favoring
     species survival.

     Research on timidity in animals is proving fruitful to scientists
     probing the biological underpinnings of social phobia in people.
     Studies of mice and of monkeys bred to be timid, for example,
     indicate submissiveness may be associated with abnormalities in a
     number of messenger chemicals in the brain, in particular a
     neurotransmitter called dopamine.

     Recent studies using a three-dimensional imaging technique called
     Spect (or single photon emission computed tomography), which allows
     measurement of chemical structures in the brain, suggest dopamine
     may be involved in humans, as well. A 1997 Spect study by Finnish
     researchers found that patients diagnosed with social phobia showed
     abnormalities in the brain's dopamine system in comparison to
     normal subjects. And in a small, still uncompleted Spect study at
     Columbia University, Dr. Franklin Schneier, Liebowitz and their
     colleagues have found indications that socially phobic patients may
     have fewer brain dopamine receptors. Antidepressants that affect
     brain dopamine levels have proven effective in alleviating symptoms
     of social phobia; but so have newer antidepressants, like Paxil,
     that alter levels of another neurotransmitter, serotonin. And
     scientists are still a long way from knowing how such brain
     chemicals act separately or together to influence behavior.

     Social phobia and shyness overlap, yet to what extent is still
     unclear. In humans, shyness appears to have a strong genetic
     component. In a series of now classic studies, Jerome Kagan, a
     Harvard University psychologist, and his colleagues, found that 10
     to 15 percent of children begin life with what Kagan calls "a
     temperamental bias to be shy, timid and fearful," a propensity
     identifiable even in infancy. Such "inhibited" children become
     unusually quiet when faced with unfamiliar adults, hang back in
     groups of peers they do not know, and even at four months are more
     reactive and more irritable in response to stimulation.

     At least some of these children grow into adults classified by
     psychiatrists as socially phobic. Certainly, many people with
     social phobia remember being inordinately shy in childhood. A
     35-year-old electrical engineer who sought help at The Shyness
     Clinic in Portola Valley, Calif., for example, still winces
     recalling a classroom show-and-tell in nursery school. She had
     brought in a deer's antler, discovered behind her house in the Los
     Angeles hills. "I remember repeating over and over in my head, 'I
     found it in my backyard,' " she said, "but I just couldn't say
     anything.' "

     A 38-year-old social worker remembers walking to school at the age
     of 11 as "like going into a war." She added, "I felt like people
     were judging me. I don't know how I survived."

     But a genetic predisposition toward shyness is just that; in a
     human child the contribution of biology is shaped, modified, and
     sometimes entirely contravened by the power of environment. Of
     Kagan's inhibited children, about 70 percent outgrew their extreme
     shyness by the age of 7, though they remained more quiet and
     subdued than their uninhibited counterparts.

     The interplay between genetic and environmental forces is easier to
     see in primates who, unlike humans, can be raised in controlled
     circumstances. Dr. Stephen Suomi, chief of the Laboratory of
     Comparative Ethology at the National Institute of Child Health and
     Human Development in Bethesda, Md., and his colleagues are studying
     rhesus monkeys that show temperamental differences similar to those
     of Kagan's shy children. These "uptight" monkeys, representing
     about 20 percent of the wild population studied by the researchers,
     are from birth more vigilant, more reactive to disruption in the
     environment and more fearful than their peers.

     Uptight males linger longer with their mothers' troops than other
     males, who emigrate to a new troop at puberty. The shy males'
     submissiveness usually lands them low in the dominance rankings.
     They carry higher parasite loads than other monkeys -- suggesting
     prolonged stress may affect their immune systems -- and display
     other physiological differences, including higher stable heart
     rates and elevated levels of stress hormones.

     But Suomi's team has found that when monkeys bred to be uptight and
     timid are raised by successful, secure, high-ranking mothers, a
     kind of miracle occurs. "They learn from their mothers how to cope
     with new social situations," Dr. Suomi says. "They get very good at
     recruiting friends and seeking help, and they often end up at top
     of the dominance hierarchy."

     A similar healing can take place in people. "Just as the mother can
     help heal the child, the girlfriend can help heal the shy guy,"
     said Dr. Ethel Person, a New York psychoanalyst. For those who are
     not so fortunate, dealing with their fear is often a lifelong
     process. Some seek out jobs that shield them from a surfeit of
     human interaction; they become night guards, or computer
     programmers, or astrophysicists.

     Others eventually find their discomfort intolerable. For a
     42-year-old nursing home recreation therapist in Connecticut, the
     limit came when she changed jobs and became preoccupied with fears
     she would embarrass herself in front of her new co-workers. For a
     35-year-old Temple University graduate student it arrived when he
     worried, weeks in advance, about a class presentation, and could
     not stop thinking, "I'm going to screw up. I'm going to make a fool
     of myself. My voice is going to crack."

     Many treatment programs are designed to combat just such
     self-flagellating thoughts. Using a model called
     "cognitive-behavioral therapy," they challenge assumptions socially
     anxious people often make reflexively: that they are being closely
     observed by everyone in the room, for example. At the Yale clinic,
     Suhoza discovered that he did not appear as nervous as he had
     feared. He said he was learning not to compare himself constantly
     with others, or to assume they are judging him badly.

     Group therapy, which allows patients to share their experiences
     with others, is a preferred mode of treatment, though half the
     battle, said Dr. Michael Otto, a psychiatrist at Harvard Medical
     School, is often to coax socially anxious people in the door in the
     first place.

     If work by Dr. Philip Zimbardo, a Stanford University psychologist,
     is any indication, clinics treating social phobia may draw even
     more customers in the future. Shyness, Dr. Zimbardo has found, is
     on the rise. In surveys, more than 50 percent of young adults
     describe themselves as chronically shy, up from 40 percent in the
     1970's. In part, he said, the jump may reflect the rise of E-mail,
     automated gas pumps, video games, A.T.M.'s and other technologies
     that remove human beings from the ordinary equations of life. With
     fewer chances to practice social skills, children may find
     face-to-face interaction more difficult. "And if you have a any
     tendency toward shyness," Zimbardo said, "that's going to amplify
     it."

   Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company


