Monumentally, Gloriously, Divinely Big Egos

By Ken Wilber

Excerpted from the upcoming book: One Taste, The Journals of Ken
Wilber Published by Shambhala Publications

"The great yogis, saints and sages accomplished so much precisely
because they were not timid little toadies but great big egos, plugged
into the dynamic Ground and Goal of the Kosmos itself." Precisely
because the ego, the soul and the Self can all be present
simultaneously, we can better understand the real meaning of
"egolessness," a notion that has caused an inordinate amount of
confusion. But egolessness does not mean the absence of a functional
self (that's a psychotic, not a sage); it means that one is no longer
exclusively identified with that self.

One of the many reasons we have trouble with the notion of "egoless"
is that people want their "egoless sages" to fulfill all their
fantasies of "saintly" or "spiritual," which usually means dead from
the neck down, without fleshy wants or desires, gently smiling all the
time. All of the things that people typically have trouble with-money,
food, sex, relationships, desire-they want their saints to be without.
"Egoless sages" who are "above all that" is what people want. Talking
heads is what they want. Religion, they believe, will simply get rid
of all baser instincts, drives and relationships, and hence they look
to religion, not for advice on how to live life with enthusiasm, but
on how to avoid it, repress it, deny it, escape it.

In other words, the typical person wants the spiritual sage to be
"less than a person," somehow devoid of all the messy, juicy, complex,
pulsating, desiring, urging forces that drive most human beings. We
expect our sages to be an absence of all that drives us! All the
things that frighten us, confuse us, torment us, confound us: we want
our sages to be untouched by them altogether. And that absence, that
vacancy, that "less than personal," is what we often mean by
"egoless."

But "egoless" does not mean "less than personal," it means "more than
personal." Not personal minus, but personal plus-all the normal
personal qualities, plus some transpersonal ones. Think of the great
yogis, saints and sages-from Moses to Christ to Padmasambhava. They
were not feeble- mannered milquetoasts, but fierce movers and
shakers-from bullwhips in the Temple to subduing entire countries.
They rattled the world on its own terms, not in some pie-in-the-sky
piety; many of them instigated massive social revolutions that have
continued for thousands of years.

And they did so not because they avoided the physical, emotional and
mental dimensions of humanness, and the ego that is their vehicle, but
because they engaged them with a drive and intensity that shook the
world to its very foundations. No doubt, they were also plugged into
the soul (deeper psychic) and spirit (formless Self)-the ultimate
source of their power-but they expressed hat power, and gave it
concrete results, precisely because they dramatically engaged the
lower dimensions through which that power could speak in terms that
could be heard by all.

These great movers and shakers were not small egos; they were, in the
very best sense of the term, big egos, precisely because the ego (the
functional vehicle of the gross realm) can and does exist alongside
the soul (the vehicle of the subtle) and the Self (vehicle of the
causal). To the extent these great teachers moved the gross realm,
they did so with their egos, because the ego is the functional vehicle
of that realm. They were not, however, identified merely with their
egos (that's a narcissist), they simply found their egos plugged into
a radiant Kosmic source. The great yogis, saints and sages
accomplished so much precisely because they were not timid little
toadies but great big egos plugged into the dynamic Ground and Goal of
the Kosmos itself, plugged into their own higher Self, alive to the
pure atman (the pure I-I) that is one with Brahman; they opened their
mouths and the world trembled, fell to its knees, and confronted its
radiant God.

Saint Teresa was a great contemplative? Yes, and Saint Teresa is the
only woman ever to have reformed an entire Catholic monastic tradition
(think about it). Gautama Buddha shook India to its foundations. Rumi,
Plotinus, Bodhidharma, Lady Tsogyal, Lao Tzu, Plato, the Bal Shem
Tov-these men and women started revolutions in the gross realm that
lated hundreds, sometimes thousands, of years, something neither Marx
nor Lenin nor Locke nor Jefferson can yet claim. And they did not do
so because they were dead from the neck down. No, they were
monumentally, gloriously, divinely big egos, plugged into a deeper
psychic, which was plugged straight into God.

There is certainly a type of truth to the notion of "transcending
ego": it doesn't mean destroy the ego, it means plug it into something
bigger. (As Nagarjuna put it, in the relative world, atman is real; in
the absolute, neither atman nor anatman is real. Thus, in neither case
is anatta a correct description of reality.) The small ego does not
evaporate; it remains as the functional center of activity in the
conventional realm. As I said, to lose that ego is to become a
psychotic, not a sage.

"Transcending the ego" thus actually means to transcend but include
the ego in a deeper and higher embrace, first in the soul or deeper
psychic, then with the Witness or primordial Self, then with each
previous stage taken up, enfolded, included and embraced in the
radiance of One Taste. And that means we do not "get rid" of the small
ego, but rather, we inhabit it fully, live it with verve, use it as
the necessary vehicle through which higher truths are communicated.
Soul and Spirit include body, emotions and mind, they do not erase
them.

Put bluntly, the ego is not an obstruction to Spirit, but a radiant
manifestation of Spirit. All Forms are not other than Emptiness,
including the form of the ego. It is not necessary to get rid of the
ego, but simply to live it with a certain exuberance. When
identification spills out of the ego and into the Kosmos at large, the
ego discovers that the individual atman is in fact all of a piece with
Brahman. The big Self is indeed no small ego, and thus, to the extent
you are stuck in your small ego, a death and transcendence is
required. Narcissists are simply people whose egos are not yet big
enough to embrace the entire Kosmos, and so they try to be central to
the Kosmos instead.

But we do not want our sages to have big egos; we do not even want
them to display a manifest dimension at all. Anytime a sage displays
humanness-in regard to money, food, sex, relationships-we are shocked,
shocked, because we are planning to escape life altogether, not live
it, and the sage who lives life offends us. We want out, we want to
ascend, we want to escape, and the sage who engages life with gusto,
lives it to the hilt, grabs each wave of life and surfs it to the
end-this deeply, profoundly disturbs us, frightens us, because it
means that we, too, might have to engage life, with gusto, on all
levels, and not merely escape it in a cloud of luminous ether. We do
not want our sages to have bodies, egos, drives, vitality, sex, money,
relationships, or life, because those are what habitually torture us,
and we want out. We do not want to surf the waves of life, we want the
waves to go away. We want vaporware spirituality.

The integral sage, the nondual sage, is here to show us otherwise.
Known generally as "tantric," these sages insist on transcending life
by living it. They insist on finding release by engagement, finding
nirvana in the midst of samsara, finding total liberation by complete
immersion. They enter with awareness the nine rings of hell, for
nowhere else are the ninr heavens found. Nothing is alien to them, for
there is nothing that is not One Taste.

Indeed, the whole point is to be fully at home in the body and its
desires, the mind and its ideas, the spirit and its light. To embrace
them fully, evenly, simultaneously, since all are equally gestures of
the One and Only Taste. To inhabit lust and watch it play; to enter
ideas and follow their brilliance; to be swallowed by Spirit and
awaken to a glory that time forgot to name. Body and mind and spirit,
all contained, equally contained, in the ever-present awareness that
grounds the entire display.

In the stillness of the night, the Goddess whispers. In the brightness
of the day, dear God roars. Life pulses, mind imagines, emotions wave,
thoughts wander. What are all these but the endless movements of One
Taste, forever at play with its own gestures, whispering quietly to
all who would listen: is this not you yourself? When the thunder
roars, do you not hear your Self? When the lightning cracks, do you
not see your Self? When clouds float quietly across the sky, is this
not your very own limitless Being, waving back at you?
