Dr. Hood,

I guess it was a little of both.  When I came into class, most of the
front seats were taken, but i guess the class was a little overwhelming.
I have a tendency to sort of hideaway when i am in groups where i don't
really feel comfortable w the people.  I don't really know many of the
honors freshmen, or honors members for that matter.  and they sort of lump
together, and i just don't feel comfortable around them.  I am especially
shy around honors students.  I don't know why exactly...maybe I am afraid
of what they will think of me or who I am.  I recently read a book on
shyness that treated shyness as a fear of people, and i agree w that a
lot.  I don't see my shyness as a good thing, but i will not yet allow
myself to let go of that structure.  I am pretty introverted--I do quite a
bit of inner searching, but at the same time, i enjoy people and being
around people.  I could really identify w. the following quote from
Zimbardo's book:


In discussing the mentalities of the guard and the prisoner w/ my class,
parallels were drawn between this relationship and those of husbands and
wives, parents and children, teachers and students, doctors and patients,
and so forth.  "But can you imagine these two mentalities in one head,
these two ways of thinking in the same person?"  I asked.  The obvious
example was the extremely shy person.
      "There are some shy people who have both the desire and the
know-how to do a particular thing, but are held back from taking action,"
I said.  "They go to a dance, they know how to do the dance steps, yet
something w/in keeps them from asking anyone to dance or accepting an
invitation.  Similarly, in the classroom, there are students who know the
answer and want to make a good impression on the teacher, but something
keeps their hands down and stifles in their voices.  They are inhibited
from acting because of inner commands from the guard-self: 'You'll look
ridiculous; people will laugh at you; this is not the place to do that; I
won't allow you the liberty to be spontaneous; do not raise your hand,
volunteer, dance, sing, or make yourself obvious; you'll be safe only if
you're not seen and not heard.' And the prisoner-w/in decides not to risk
the dangerous freedom of a spontaneous life and meekly complies."
            Philip Zimbardo, Shyness: What it is, what to do about
it

I jsut will not allow mysefl to do so many things and it really hurts me
and hold me back from learning and growing.  I don't know exactly
when/where i began this shyness.  I know i have been shy around people
other than my close family ever since i can remember.  i went through a
time in elem school where i was chattery and outgoing and not so shy, but
i reverted back to shy security for some reason.  So, i need to work on my
shyness, and people skills can always be worked on.

I guess since I have not read tons of sci-fi and fantasy, the class was a
little intimidating because most of the people had read lots fo sf.
Still, I am excited about the class because I will get to learn more about
sf. I don't usually read w/in one specific category or if i do, i usually
get tired of the category and go to another and maybe read some more of
that category later.  I don't consider myself to be someone who reads all/
most of the time. I do love to read, but i tend to read in spurts.  i may
go months w out reading more than one or two books and them read straight
for three days and get back into reading heavily.  it is almost like being
in the mood to read. sometimes no matter what i pick up i will not finish
it becaue i am not in a reading mood.  i don't know how to expalin it any
better than that.  i know that you did not need all of that info about my
reading, but i decided to tell you anyway.  :)

So, i guess my sitting in the back was the result of my feeling a bit
disconnected from the group and also becasue of my shyness and
insecurities.

Melissa

            *I will send you some writing on Wayne later on today.


