Greetings, fellow pilgrims to the Regional Honors Conference!

Our search for inner peace will soon turn us toward Baton Rouge, and more
importantly, New Orleans (!), land of much Dixieland and Zydeco.  Not to
mention fine Cajun Cuisine the likes of which you may never taste again.
<drool>  However, we ask that you remember at all times that you represent our
Honors Program and our University, and act accordingly.  Appropriate behavior
includes:

No consumption of alcohol, in any form.  Period.  No matter who you are and how
old you are.  If the need arises, NyQuil will be administered to cold and flu 
victims by an approved Honors physician.

And the second is like the first: No illicit, illegal, or otherwise unhealthy
drugs.  Unlike Zeppelin and The Osmonds, Dixieland DOES NOT make sense or
otherwise sound better when you're stoned.

If and when you sleep, do it in the room you've been assigned to.  It's fine to
congregate in each other's rooms, but if someone in there needs/would like to
sleep, everyone not assigned to that room is asked to leave.  Sleeping in other
people's rooms tends to have a negative effect on hair length, nail color, and
trouser cleanliness (you do know what happens if you put the hand of a sleeping
person into a bucket of warm water, don't you?  Of course you do....)

Get a good night's sleep the night before your presentation.  Only spectators
are allowed to sleep during presentations.

Bus drivers are to be fully rested.  Just dont's catch up on your sleep WHILE 
you're driving.  Insurance companies tend to take a dim view of such activities.

Please observe proper dress when presenting.  Men, please wear a tie.  Bow ties
and neck ties are acceptable, string and bolo ties are not.  Most people like
to wear a button-down shirt with a collar when they wear a tie.  You should
too.  Slacks, not jeans.  A sport coat or suit is encouraged.  Shoes are handy,
as are socks.  What you wear underneath it all is your own business.  And none 
of this "New Yuppie" look with the tie and baseball cap. Instead of a hat, why
not comb your hair for a change?  You could even wash it.  Women, please wear a
dress or skirt/slacks (with a nice blouse, of course.  This isn't France.) 
Please be modest (this goes for the men, too.)  Ask yourself "would Madonna 
(or Prince) wear this?"  If the answer is 'yes', might want to choose another 
ensemble.  Men, one more thing: shave.

When you're at the conference but not presenting, we ask only that you present
a neat, well-groomed appearance.  No T-shirts please.  Jeans are okay, slacks
are still better and are encouraged.  And no matter what they say, bell-bottoms
are STILL out of style.  Again, no hats, please.

And on the Seventh Day (Saturday) shalt the trumpets sound and the gates be
opened and the people will be loosed upon New Orleans, rejoicing.  To forage
for Cajun food and Zydeco CD's.  Remember the immortal words from ALL I REALLY
NEEDED TO KNOW I LEARNED IN KINDERGARDEN "When you go out into the world, hold 
hands and look both ways."  In other words, don't go out alone.  At least
three to a group.  And this is going to sound incredibly sexist (because it
is), but there should be at least one fella in every group.  The wackos in New
Orleans are a different breed from our local variety, but odds are they'll
leave you alone if there's a man in the crowd.  Please understand, this is for
safety's sake.

Showers: yes.

Pets: no.

Pyrotechnic devices:  lots of fun, but illegal in many places.  Don't bring
them.  And don't use the excuse that the Holy Hand Grenade is a religious icon.

Smokers vs. Non-smokers.  We will try put smokers in rooms with smokers and
non-smokers in rooms with non-smokers.  This may not be possible across the
board.  If you smoke and your roomie does not, he/she has permission now to
spray a fire extinguisher in your general direction.  So, just to avoid making
a mess, why not respect his/her atmosphere and light up outside?  No smoking on
the bus.

If you spontaneously combust, please stop, drop, and roll.

And above all, BE MINDFUL.  Or I might have to get medieval on your buttocks.
