 I like Monkeys
 
The pet store was selling them for five cents a pieace. I thought
this was odd since they were normally a couple thousand. I decided
not to look a gift horse in the mouth so I bought 200 of them. I like
monkeys.
 
I took my 200 monkeys home. I have a big car. I let one of drive. 
His name was Sigmund. He was retarded. In fact, none of them were
really bright. They kept punching themselves in the genitals. I
laughed. They punched me in the genitals. I stopped laughing.
 
I herded them into my room. They didn't adapt very well to their new
environment. They would screech and hurl themselves off the couch at
high speeds and slam into the wall. Although humorous at first, the
spectacle lost its novelty halfway into it's third hour.
 
Two hours later I found out why all the monkeys were so inexpensive;
they all died. No apparent reason. They all just sort of dropped
dead. Kinda like when you buy a goldfish and it dies five hours later. 
God damn cheap monkeys.
 
I didn't know what to do. There were 200 dead monkeys lying all over
my room; on the bed, in the dresser, hanging from my bookcase. It
looked like I had 200 throw rugs. I tried to flush one down the
toilet. It didn't work. It got stuck. Then I had one dead, wet
monkey and one hundred ninety-nine dead, dry monkeys.
 
I tried to pretend that they were just stuffed animals. That worked
for awhile, that is until they began to decompose. It started to
smell real bad.
 
I had to pee but there was a dead monkey in my toilet and I didn't
want to call a plumber. I was embarrassed.
 
I tried to slow down the decomposition by freezing them. Unfortuantely
there was only enough room for two at a time, so I had to change them
every 30 seconds. I also had to eat all the food in the freezer so it
didn't go bad.
 
I tried to burn them, but little did I know that my bed was flammable. 
I had to extinguish the fire.
 
Then I had one dead, wet monkey in my toilet, two dead, frozen monkeys
in my freezer, and one hundred ninety-seven dead, charred monkeys in a
pile on my bed, The odor wasn't improving.
 
I became agitated at my inability to dispose of the dead monkeys and I
really had to use the bathroom. So I went and severely beat one of
the monkeys. I felt better.
 
I tried throwing them away but the garbage man said the city was not
allowed to dispose of charred primates. I told him I had a wet one. 
He couldn't take it either. I didn't bother asking about the frozen
ones.
 
I finally arrived at a solution. I gave them out as Christmas gifts. 
My friends didn't quite know what to say. They pretended to like
them, but I could tell they were lying. Ingrates. So I punched them
in the genitals.
 
I like monkeys.
 
This is a chain letter.....now that you have read it, you will have
been hexed with bad luck in everything you do until you forward this
to 10 people you know. After 10 days, you will have permanant bad
luck forever. If you do forward this 10 people in ten days then you
will have good luck in life for the next year.
 
Scenario 1--Alex McNealy, a student from Yankton SD got this mail and
thought nothing of it. He simply deleted it. Ten days later, his
girlfriend was in a fatal car accident that nearly killed him too. 
Not only that, but the blood he received in the transfusion was
infected with HIV.
 
Scenario 2--Korey Dampenhousse, a graduate student from NYC received
this letter and immediately forwarded to 20 people he knew. the next
day, he received a promotion at work and got a date with the secretary
he had been eyeing.
 
So you see, forwarding this would be a good idea. You have been
warned.
