Back in the fifteenth century, in a tiny village near Nuremberg, lived
a family with eighteen children.  Eighteen! In order merely to keep
food on the table for this mob, the father and head of the household,
a goldsmith  by profession, worked almost eighteen hours a day at his
trade and any other paying chore he could find in the neighborhood.
Despite their seemingly hopeless condition, two of Albrecht Durer the
Elder's children had a dream.

They both wanted to pursue their talent for art, but they knew full
well that their father would never be financially able to send either
of them to Nuremberg to study at the Academy. After many long
discussions at night in their crowded bed, the two boys finally worked
out a pact. They would toss a coin. The loser would go down into the
nearby mines and, with his earnings, support his brother while he
attended the academy. Then, when that brother who won the toss
completed his studies, in four years, he would support the other
brother at the academy, either with sales of his artwork or, if
necessary, also by laboring in the mines. They tossed a coin on a
Sunday morning after church. Albrecht Durer won the toss and went off
to Nuremberg. Albert went down into the dangerous mines and, for the
next four years, financed his brother, whose work at the academy was
almost an immediate sensation. Albrecht's etchings, his woodcuts, and
his oils were far better than those of most of his professors, and by
the time he graduated, he was beginning to earn considerable fees for
his commissioned works. When the young artist returned to his village,
the Durer family held a festive dinner on their lawn to celebrate
Albrecht's triumphant homecoming. 

After a long and memorable meal, punctuated with music and laughter,
Albrecht rose from his honored position at the head of the table to
drink a toast to his beloved brother for the years of sacrifice that
had enabled Albrecht to fulfill his ambition. His closing words were,
"And now, Albert, blessed brother of mine, now it is your turn. Now
you can go to Nuremberg to pursue your dream, and I will take care of
you." All heads turned in eager expectation to the far end of the
table where Albert sat, tears streaming down his pale face, shaking
his lowered head from side to side while he sobbed and repeated, over
and over, "No ...no...no..no."

Finally, Albert rose and wiped the tears from his cheeks. He glanced
down the long table at the faces he loved, and then, holding his hands
close to his right cheek, he said softly, "No, brother. I cannot go to
Nuremberg. It is too late for me. Look ... look what four years in the
mines have done to my hands! The bones in every finger have been
smashed at least once, and lately I have been suffering from arthritis
so badly in my right hand that I cannot even hold a glass to return
your toast, much less make delicate lines on parchment or canvas with
a pen or a brush. No, brother ... for me it is too late." 

More than 450 years have passed. By now, Albrecht Durer's hundreds
of,masterful portraits, pen and silver-point sketches, watercolors,
charcoals, woodcuts, and copper engravings hang in every great museum
in the world, but the odds are great that you, like most people, are
familiar with only one of Albrecht Durer's works. More than merely
being familiar with it, you very well may have a reproduction hanging
in your home or office. One day, to pay homage to Albert for all that
he had sacrificed, Albrecht Durer painstakingly drew his brother's
abused hands with palms together and thin fingers stretched skyward.
He called his powerful  drawing simply "Hands," but the entire world
almost immediately opened their hearts to his great masterpiece and
renamed his tribute of love "The Praying Hands." The next time you see
a copy of that touching creation, take a second look. Let it be your
reminder, if you still need one, that no one - no one ever makes it
alone!
