Playing the Game

The setting is a large university about six or seven years ago in a huge 
lecture hall during a Chem final: 

This Chem teacher wasn't well liked since he would stand at the front
of the class and yell how much time was remaining before the end of a
test, a real charmer. Since he was so busy gallivanting around the
room making sure that nobody cheated and that everyone was aware of
how much time they had left before their failure on the test was
complete, he had the students stack the completed tests on the huge
podium at the front of the room. 

This made for quite a mess, since there were nearly 1000 students in
the class.  During this final, a student entered the test needing a
decent grade to pass the class. His only problem was that he did
poorly when rushed, and this ass standing in the front of the room
barking out how much time was left didn't help him at all. He had to
get a good grade, so he hardly flinched when the professor said,
"Pencils down and submit your Scantron sheets and put them on the
pile at the front of the room." 

Five minutes turned into ten, ten into twenty, twenty into forty

...almost an hour after the test was "officially over," our friend
finally put down the pencil, gathered up his work, and headed to the
front of the hall to submit his final. The whole time, the professor
sat at the front of the room, strangely waiting for the student to
complete his exam.  

"What do you think you're doing?" the professor asked as the student
stood in front of him about to put down his exam on one of the neatly
stacked piles of exams (the professor had had plenty of time to stack
the mountain of papers while he'd waited).  It was clear that the
professor had waited only to give the student a hard time. 

"Turning in my exam," retorted the student confidently. 

"I'm afraid I have some bad news for you," the professor gloated, "Your 
exam is an hour late. You've FAILED it and, consequently, I'll see you 
next term when you repeat my course." 

The student smiled slyly and asked the professor, "Do you know who I 
am?" 

"What?" replied the professor gruffly, annoyed that the student
showed no sign of emotion. 

The student rephrased the question mockingly, "Do you know what my
name is, SIR?" 

"NO!" snarled the professor. The student looked the professor dead in
the eyes and said slowly, "I didn't think so," as he lifted up one of
the stacks halfway, shoved his test neatly into the center of the
stack, let the stack fall burying his test in the middle, turned
around, and walked casually out of the huge lecture hall.
