You animal lovers may not want to read this one, but it is funny... 
very funny...

Oh, here is one for the Darwin Awards, this was on the Lewis & Floorwax
Show this morning on 103.5 FM The Fox Radio in Denver.  Another one of
those things that make you go Hmmmmmmmmm.

Michigan, USA.

Guy buys brand new Grand Cherokee for 30 some thousand dollars and has
400+ dollar monthly payments.  He immediately gets ahold of his friend 
and they go do some male bonding.  They go duck hunting and of course 
all the lakes are frozen.

These 2 Atomic Brains go to the lake with the guns, the dog, the beer 
and of course the new vehicle.  They drive out onto the lake ice and get
ready.  Now, they  want to make some kind of a natural landing area  for
the ducks, something for the decoys to float on.  Remember, it's all ice
and in order to make a hole large enough to look like something a
wandering duck wants to fly down and land on, it is going to take a
 little more effort than a ice hole drill.

Out of the back of the new Grand Cherokee comes a stick of dynamite
with a short, 40 second fuse.

Now these 2 Rocket Scientists do take into consideration that if they 
place the stick of dynamite on the ice at a location far from where
they are standing (and the new Grand Cherokee), they take the risk of 
slipping on the ice when they run from the burning fuse and possibly
going up in smoke with the resulting blast.  So, they decide to light 
this 40 second fuse and throw the dynamite which is what they end up
doing.

Remember a couple of paragraphs back when I mentioned the vehicle,
the beer, the guns AND THE DOG ????

Yes, the dog.  A highly trained Black Lab used for retrieving, 
especially things thrown by the owner.

You guessed it, the dog takes off at a high rate of doggy speed on the 
ice and gets the stick of dynamite with the burning 40 second fuse 
about the time it hits the ice all to the woes of the 2 idiots yelling,
stomping, waving arms and wondering what the hell to do now.

The dog, well it is happy and heads back from where it came from
moments before,  with the stick of dynamite, only to the mounting woes of the 
2 bozo's now really waving their arms, yelling even louder and jumping 
to new heights than ever before.

Now one of the guys decides to think, something that he has never done 
before this moment, grabs a shotgun and shoots the dog.  The shotgun is
loaded with #8 duck shot, hardly big enough to stop a Black Lab on its 
appointed rounds.  Dog stops for a moment, slightly confused and
continues on.  Another shot and this time the dog, still standing,
becomes really confused & of course scared, thinking these 2 Nobel Prize
winners have gone insane and takes off to find cover, with the now
really short short fuse burning on this stick of dynamite.

The cover the dogs finds?  Underneath the brand new Grand Cherokee 30
some thousand dollar 400+ monthly payment vehicle sitting on the lake ice.

BOOM !

Dog dies and it and the brand new Grand Cherokee 30 some thousand dollar
400+ monthly payment vehicle sink to the bottom of the lake leaving the 2
candidates for Co-leaders of the Known Universe standing there with
this "I can't believe this happened" look on their faces.

Later, the owner of the vehicle calls his insurance company which 
tells him that sinking a vehicle in a lake by illegal use of explosives
is not covered.  He had yet to make the first of those 400+ a month payments.

I felt pretty sorry for the dog myself.

When they made the movie Fargo they should have waited a few more
months and this could have been added into it.

 ----------
1.  Dog is man's best friend, but the converse may not be true.
2.  Who's smarter of the two, these two people or their dog.
3.  Were these people laid off workers from the defense business?
