A rather inhibited engineer finally splurged on a luxury cruise to the
Caribbean. It was the "craziest" thing he had ever done in his life.
Just as he was beginning to enjoy himself, a hurricane roared upon the
huge ship, capsizing it like a child's toy.  Somehow the engineer,
desperately hanging on to a life preserver, managed to wash ashore on a
secluded island.  Outside of beautiful scenery, a spring-fed pool,
bananas and coconuts, there was little else. He lost all hope and for
hours on end, sat under same palm tree.  One day, after several months
had passed, a gorgeous woman in a small rowboat appeared.  "I'm from the
other side of the island," she said. "Were you on the cruise ship,
too?"  "Yes, I was, " he answered. "But where did you get that
rowboat?"   "Well, I whittled the oars from gum tree branches, wove the
reinforced gunnel from palm branches, and made the keel and stern from a
Eucalyptus tree."  "But, what did you use for tools?" asked the man.
"There was a very unusual strata of alluvial rock exposed on the
south side of the island. I discovered that if I fired it to a certain
temperature in my kiln, it melted into forgeable ductile iron.  Anyhow,
that's how I got the tools. But, enough of that," she said. "Where have
you been living all this time? I don't see any shelter."  "To be honest,
I've just been sleeping on the beach," he said.  "Would you like to come
to my place?" the woman asked. The engineer nodded dumbly.  She expertly
rowed them around to her side of the island, and tied up the boat with a
handsome strand of hand-woven hemp topped with a neat back splice. They
walked up a winding stone walk she had laid and around a palm tree.
There stood an exquisite bungalow painted in blue and white.  "It's not
much, but I call it home." Inside, she said, "Sit down please.  Would
you like to have a drink?" "No, thanks," said  the man. "One more
coconut juice and I'll throw up!"  "It won't be coconut juice," the
woman replied.  "I have a crude still out back, so we can have authentic
Pina Coladas." Trying to hide his amazement, the man accepted the drink,
and they sat down on her couch to talk. After they had exchanged
stories, the woman asked, "Tell me, have you always had a beard?"  "No,"
the man replied, "I was clean shaven all of my life until I ended up on
this island."  "Well if you'd like to shave, there's a razor upstairs in
the bathroom cabinet."  The man, no longer questioning anything, went
upstairs to the  bathroom and shaved with an intricate bone-and-shell
device honed razor sharp.  Next he showered -- not even attempting to
fathom a guess as to how she managed to get warm water into the bathroom
-- and went back downstairs. He couldn't help but admire the masterfully
carved banister as he walked.  "You look great," said the woman.  "I
think I'll go up and slip into something more comfortable."  As
she did, the man continued to sip his Pina Colada. After a short time,
the woman, smelling faintly of gardenias, returned wearing a revealing
gown fashioned out of pounded palm fronds.  "Tell me," she asked, "we've
both been out here for a very long time with no companionship.  You know
what I mean.  Have you been lonely...is there anything that you really,
really miss? Something that all men and women need?  Something that
would be really nice to have right now!"  "Yes there is!" the man
replied, shucking off his shyness. "There is something I've wanted to do
for so long. But on this island all alone, it was just...well, it was
impossible."  "Well, it's not impossible, any more," the woman said.
The man, practically panting in excitement, said breathlessly:  "You
mean you actually figured out some way we can check our e-mail
here?"
