				INSPIRATIONS


1.	Kindness is the lubricant for the frictions of life.

2.	We could all take a lesson from the weather.
	It pays no attention to criticism.

3.	Laughter translates into any language.

4.    	Don't believe that nice guys finish last.
	Nice guys are winners before the game even starts.

5.	A friend is someone who makes you feel totally acceptable.

6.	If you cannot win, help the one ahead of you break the record.

7.	One of the biggest mistakes a person can make 
	is to believe they're working for someone else.

8.	When you are right no one remembers.
	When you are wrong, no one forgets.

9.	We regret more things we didn't do than things we did do.

10.	Blessed are they who expect nothing,
	for they shall never be disappointed.

11.	Your goals don't start in the brain. They start in the heart.

12.	Friends are made by many acts -- and can be lost by just one.

13.	Today is the last day of your life so far.

14.	Every silver lining has a cloud around it.

15.	A laugh is just a simple thimbleful in the infinite number of joys.

16.	The only perfect science is hindsight.

17.	The way some people find fault, you'd think there was a reward.

18.	To enjoy the full flavor of life, always take big bites.

19.	Always remember that you are absolutely unique.  Just like everyone else.

20.	There are two kinds of people:  
	those who do the work and those who take the credit.  
	Try to be in the first group -- there is much less competition there.

21.	Nothing gives one person so much advantage over another
	as to remain always cool and unruffled under all circumstances.

22.	The best way to forget your own problem is to help someone solve theirs.

23.	Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions.
	Small people always do that,
	but the really great make you feel that you, too, can become great.

24.	Life is very interesting -- if you make mistakes.

25.	Friendship should not be thought of as something we get;
	it is something we give.

26.	People who try to whittle you down
	are only trying to reduce you to their size.

27.	Sometimes the best way to convince a person they are wrong
	is to let them have their own way.

28.	The future is that time when you'll wish you'd done
	what you aren't doing now.

29.	It is easy to be critical.
	The real test is to come up with constructive alternatives.

30.	If you can't think of any other way to flatter someone,
	tell them they're the kind of person who can't be flattered.

31.	Put your interest in the future
	because you're going to spend the rest of your life there.

32.	Modesty is for those who have no talent.

33.	There are no absolute answers to life -- just revelations.

34.	A path without obstacles probably leads nowhere.

35.	Your conscience never stops you from doing anything.
	It just stops you from enjoying it.

36.	Friendship is a work of heart.

37.	We are what memories have made us.

38.	If ignorance is bliss, why aren't there more happy people?

39.	Don't get even -- get odd.

40.	Nothing makes your sense of humor disappear faster
	than having somebody ask where it is.

41.	One way to prevent conversation from being boring
	is to say the wrong thing.

42.	The perfect guest is one who makes his host feel at home.

43.	Education is the process of moving from cocksure ignorance
	to thoughtful uncertainty.

44.	Considering all of the things you wear,
	your expression is the most important.

45.	The surest way to knock the chip off a person's shoulder
	is by patting them on the back.

46.	Our eyes are placed in front because
	it is more important to look ahead than back.


47.	Most smiles are started by another smile.

48.	A pat on the back
	is only a few vertebrae removed from a kick in the pants,
	but is miles ahead in results.

49.	People may doubt what you say, but they will believe what you do.

50.	A smile increases your face value.

51.	Happiness is not a goal, it is a by-product.

52.	Prevent a hassle -- smile first.

53.	Worry is putting today's sun under tomorrow's cloud.

54.	Speak when you're angry
	and you'll make the best speech you'll ever regret.

55.	Why not go out on a limb?  Isn't that where the fruit is?

56.	Happiness can be felt only if you don't set conditions.

57.	Stick to the fight when you're hardest hit --
	it's when things seem worst that you mustn't quit.

58.	There are two times you should keep your mouth shut --
	when swimming and when angry.

59.	Somebody figured it out --
	we have 35 million laws to enforce the ten commandments.

60.	The only thing worth dying for is living.
