It appears to me that as the cultural circumstance surrounding our
human existance change, there is a change in our perception of 'God'. 
Keeping our genuine 'good conscience' is, in my mind, at the heart of
these changed perceptions.

I believe our good conscience (genuine morality) is tied into the
understanding of a 'migrating experiential homeostasis'. The meaning
of the "existential void" could be interpreted from the point of view
that one is looking for a "right answer" identification by yoking
themselves with a specific philosophy or body of work from a former
time. The term existen tial void describes to me a person unable to
rid themselves from a hollow sense of distance between them and a
place of belonging. The only place of belonging for the individual is
with 'the migrating experiential homeostasis', or the place where God
dwells in man. What makes moving with a constantly present and moving
Now difficult and perhaps even incomprehensible, even to well educated
individuals, is the way we go about the instruction process. We tend
to crystalize our experience from generation to generation.

Christ, I believe, understood this ' migrating body of conduct and
experience'. I believe the Salvation was 'a way of getting along with
the day at hand' that could provide a people with an inward security
and peace. To set the people at ease, Christ dialogued extensively
about how a man can not singularly control or change the outcome of
his destiny, so as to encourage persons to take comfort in something
beyond the singular measure of a man. He spoke against the idea that
if a number of persons are standing in a place where the roof caves
in, that those persons were somehow being repayed for their 'sins'. 
He spoke against the idea that a small army could conquer a large army
even if the lesser army were actualizing the written "LAW of God" to
perfection. He spoke against the aqusition of worldly goods and
putting one's trust in them, knowing that in a short time, Rome would
take away all those things. Christ knew the Roman's would splinter
their solidarity and so began to encourage a new outlook. Who is your
neighbor? He also knew the traditions of his people would be
impractical if not impossible to uphold when taken by Rome, so he
coaxed a relaxation of attitude concerning certain food customs. He
advised men to Trust God who is Spirt to guide their walk. What Father
would give his son a snake when asking for a loaf of bread?

Finding Good Conscience in the moving times was the promise of Christ. 
"I come that your joy may be complete". One can only understand this
joy, when one understands that reality is malleable and in a constant
state of mild to volitile change and that no matter how 'right' a book
or your oral history may tell you you are, there will be circumstances
that come before you for which you have no prepared answer. And in
that instant you will be free to speak in good conscience to that
event. This was the reality that Christ prepared men for. This was the
salvation, to move and speak within the scope of constantly changing
times.

D J Lancaster
203 Evergreen St.
Southgate, KY 41071
