The statements below concern your personal reactions to a number of
situations. No two statements are exactly alike, so consider each
statement carefully before answering. If a statement is true or
mostly true as applied to you, mark T as your answer. If a statement
is false or not usually true as applied ot you, mark F as your answer. 
It is important that you answer as frankly and honestly as you can.

1. I find it hard to imitate the behavior of other people.

2. My behavior is usually an expression of my true inner feelings,
    attitudes, and beliefs.

3. At parties and social gatherings, I do not attempt to do or say
    things that others will like.

4. I can only argue for ideas I already believe.

5. I can make impromptu speeches even on topics about which I have
    almost no information.

6. I guess I put on a show to impress or entertain people.

7. When I am uncertain how to act in a social situation, I look to the
    behavior of others for cues.

8. I would probably make a good actor.

9. I rarely need the advice of my friends to choose movies, books, or
    music.

10. I sometimes appear to others to be experiencing deeper emotions
     than I actually am.

11. I laugh more when I watch a comedy with others than when alone.

12. In a group of people I am rarely the center of attention.

13. In different situations and with different people, I often act
     like very different persons.

14. I am not particularly good at making other people like me.

15. Even if I am not enjoying myself, I often pretend to be having a
     good time.

16. I'm not always the person I appear to be.

17. I would not change my opinions (or the way I do things) in order
     to please someone else or win their favor.

18. I have considered being an entertainer.

19. In order to get along and be liked, I tend to be what people
     expect me to be rather than anything else.

20. I have trouble changing my behavior to suit different people and
     different situations.

22. At a party, I let others keep the jokes and stories going.

23. I feel a bit awkward in company and do not show up quite so well
     as I should.

24. I can look anyone in the eye and tell a lie with a straight face
     (if for a right end.)

25. I may deceive people by being friendly when I really dislike them.
