It's a scene from The Empire Strikes Back.

INT: BESPIN GANTRY - MOMENTS LATER:

(A furious lightsaber duel is underway. DARTH VADER is backing LUKE
 SKYWALKER towards the end of the gantry. A quick move by Vader chops off
> >> > Luke's hand. It goes spinning off into the ventilation shaft. Luke
backs
away. He looks around, but realizes there's nowhere to go but straight
down.)

Darth Vader : Obi Wan never told you what happened to your father.

Luke : He told me enough! He told me you killed him!

Darth Vader : No, Luke... I am your father!

Luke : No! It's not true! It's impossible.

Darth Vader : Search your feelings... you know it to be true...

Luke : NO!

Darth Vader : Yes, it is true... and you know what else? You know that
brass droid of yours?

Luke : Threepio?

Darth Vader : Yes... Threepio... I built him... when I was only 7 years
old...

Luke : No...

Darth Vader : Seven years old! And what have you done? Look at yourself, no
lightsaber, no hand, no job, and couldn't even levitate your own ship out
of the swamp...

Luke : I destroyed your precious Death Star!

Darth Vader : When you were 20! When I was 10, I single-handedly destroyed
a Trade Federation Droid Control ship!

Luke : Well, it's not my fault...

Darth Vader : Oh, here we go... "Poor me... my father never gave me what I
wanted for my birthday... boo hoo, my daddy's the Dark Lord of the
Sith...waahhh wahhh!"

 Luke : Shut up...

Darth Vader : You're a slacker! By the time I was your age, I had
exterminated the Jedi knights!

Luke : I used to race my T-16 through Beggar's Canyon!

Darth Vader : Oh, for the love of the Emperor... 10 years old, winner of
the Boonta Eve Open... Only human to ever fly a Pod Racer... right here
baby!

(Luke looks down the shaft. Takes a step towards it.)

Darth Vader : I was wrong... You're not my kid... I don't know whose you
are, but you sure ain't mine...

(Luke takes a step off the platform, hesitates, then plunges down the
shaft.  Darth Vader looks after him.)

Darth Vader : Get a haircut!

