From: TTU::AJB5383      "Aaron Bibb v. 2.0 - Now Y2K Compliant!" 17-SEP-
1999 14:47:04.60
To:   ENG20201 ENG20203 @USER:[HONORS.PUBLIC]HON10101.DIS
CC:
Subj: Neat Stephen Jay Gould quote

Hey,
      If you haven't read "The Allegory of the Cave" from CONSTRUCTING
A LIFE PHILOSOPHY yet, you might want to read that before reading this
quote, which references it. It's pretty neat :) The first paragraph is
me talking, and then the quote starts.

      I've been reading EIGHT LITTLE PIGGIES, a collection of essays
by Stephen Jay Gould, lately, based on Andy's glowing praise of some
of his other stuff. There's an essay on Eugene Dubois, the discoverer
of the first bones of homo erectus (he named it pithecanthropus
erectus). At the time the bones were discovered, a lot of scientists
were looking for the "missing link" between apes and humans, Dubois
among them. He believed that evolution worked in sudden, sharp changes
rather than slow, gradual ones. His main area of interest was brain
sizes, and he developed a model of mammalian intelligence based on the
creature's deviance from its predicted brain size, which was based on
a logarhythmic curve from shrews to elephants. (This model was
designed to explain why humans have so much more intelligence than
other mammals with larger brains, or with brains that were larger in
proportion to their bodies than humans'). Dubois frantically twisted
facts and experimental findings to make everything fit this vision. At
the close of the essay, Gould writes:


      "Good scholars struggle to understand the world in an integral
way (pedants bite off tiny bits and worry them to death). These
visions of reality - I have called them tapestries in this essay -
demand our respect, for they are an intellectual's only birthright.
They are often entirely wrong and always flawed in serious ways, but
they must be understood honorably and not subjected to mayhem by the
excision of patches. [In this essay, Gould criticizes the popular
(even among scholars) view of Dubois' work, which basically makes a
caricature out of him)]

      "I think that Dubois was wrong in his basic approach, and surely
incorrect in his ingenious argument for Pithecanthropus remade as a
human ancestor with a gibbon's build. He was a Platonic numerologist
in a messy world. He longed for absolutes, for invariable laws based
on clean and simple numbers. He never understood that nothing
generates the shadows on Plato's cave. The shadows *are* reality, and
they are diffuse, with penumbras spreading out and intersecting in
complex patterns. Arthur Keith, the great British anthropologist, made
the necessary observation with adequate gentleness in an obituary
notice for Dubois: 'He was an idealist, his ideas being so firmly held
that his mind tended to bend facts rather than alter his ideas to fit
them.' Still, just as the old cliche tells us about love, it is surely
better to have a dream and to be wrong, than never to dream at all."


