Source:  Parabola, Fall 1997 v22 n3 p6(7).
                                                                              
    Title:  The saint with seven tombs. (Sufi saint Sari Saltuk's tomb on the
            river Buna in Bosnia)(Conscience and Consciousness issue)
   Author:  Tim Winter
                                                                              
 Abstract:  A Sufi shrine on the Buna river near Blagaj, Bosnia, is
constructed around a tomb of the legendary saint Sari Saltuk of the Bektashi
order of Sufism. Sari Saltuk is said to have asked for seven tombs to be
constructed to encourage pilgrimages everywhere. At the shrine in Bosnia, the
river seems to spring from nowhere, a scene which the dervishes may have
regarded as symbolic of the constant renewal of creation. The number seven is
highly symbolic in Sufism, and Sari Saltuk is said to have carried seven
arrows, in addition to his seven tombs. Seven may refer to the seven stages or
degrees in the soul's ascent to higher states of consciousness.
                                                                              
 Subjects:  Sufism - Bosnia-Herzegovina
            Islamic shrines - Religious aspects
                                                                              
Electronic Collection:  A19711248
                   RN:  A19711248
                                                                              

Full Text COPYRIGHT 1997 Society for the Study of Myth and Tradition

The Sufi shrine which nestles near the Bosnian village of Blagaj is
well-guarded both by nature and by sacred, enigmatic metaphors. The visitor
follows the Buna river upstream through a gorge shaded by willow and oak,
until, without warning, the river's source is attained. A white cliff hundreds
of feet high towers over the small cave from whose living limestone rock the
green waters gush. Cantilevered over this cave is a whitewashed Sufi tekke, or
meeting house, built centuries ago by dervish initiates of the secretive
Bektash order. From its windows one gains a heart-ravishing view of this
mysterious scene: the river that flows from nowhere.

During my visit in 1994 the madness of war was less than a mile distant; yet
within this blessed sanctuary peace was everywhere. Great eagles circled
above; the occasional fish broke the surface of the river. Within the tekke, a
choir of four teenage girls was slowly exploring the modulated, minor keys of
Bosnian sacred music.

Why did fifteenth-century dervishes choose this place to establish their
shrine? Gazing from the window, I tried to see it through their long-dead
eyes. The girls, as though reading my thoughts, sang the old poem of Yunus
Emre:

Those rivers of Paradise, They flow, repeating the Name of God.

An image of the celestial Eden? It was, I felt sure, nothing so hackneyed and
conventional. The symbol must be something more devastating. Soon the girls,
eyes distant as their souls resonated to the ancient words, changed key, and
launched into the great hymn of Bayram Veli:

What ails this soul of mine? Why overflows it with such pain? My soul it
burns, burns, and in that very burning finds its balm.

A flash of intuition, and the answer came to me. The unknown dervishes had
used the river which came from nowhere as a symbol of the miracle of
existence. Their Bektashi brotherhood, like Neoplatonist philosophy, held that
creation is continually renewed in every instant. The mystic wayfarer, the
yolcu, voyages upstream until he reaches the point of the "Most Holy Effusion"
(feyz-i aqdas), where the world and human spirits emanate from the Divine. As
ensouled participants swimming in this great river, we dimly intuit that the
river has a source. Consciousness of self remains an existential burning, a
homesickness, until realization is attained: the human heart enshrines a spark
whose light is from the divine Source. As ensouled creatures, we may swim
upstream, against the flow; or we may allow ourselves to be carried along with
the dead flotsam, until, at last, we become indistinguishable from it.

The tekke on the river Buna is built around one of the tombs of the dervish
saint Sari Saltuk. I say "one of the tombs" because, like many saints, he was
too important to have only one grave. Before he died, he ordered his disciples
to construct seven tombs for his mortal frame, "so that ignorance of where my
body lies will produce everywhere a pilgrimage that will uplift the souls."
Hence tombs of Sari Saltuk are pointed out today not only in Bosnia, but in
Romania and Turkey. Ottoman sources even insist that he has a tomb in Gdansk
on the Baltic. The medieval Moroccan traveller Ibn Battuta found a sanctuary
dedicated to him in the Ukraine. The total number is debated by scholars, and
will probably remain "known only unto God."

Sari Saltuk exists mainly in legend. Folk tradition is not even sure he was a
Muslim. Bosnian stories regard him as a dragon-slayer, and hence assimilate
him to St. George. One Turkish historian identifies him with St. Nicholas;
others conflate him with Elias. Peasant stories in Corfu associate him with
St. Spyridon. Albanians, who visit his sanctuary in Kruje, once adopted him as
the (Muslim) patron saint of the brewers' guild. A lover of the Koran, his
sweet recital of the Gospels in the great church of Constantinople reduced the
monks to tears. Perhaps these ambivalent memories would have pleased Saltuk
himself, a wandering miracle-worker who, like all those brought close to God,
had shed the coarser garments of his human identity.

As the saint had foretold, the tomb at the Buna sanctuary became a magnet for
pilgrims. In the 1980s, the annual celebration of the Prophet Muhammad's
birthday (mevlud) at the shrine drew many thousands.(1) The courtyard and
riverbanks filled with families straining to hear the great Nativity-Song,
written by Safvet-beg Basagic (d. 1934) and performed by one of Bosnia's great
vocalists. The various Sufi orders were present, and held their ceremonies
after the night prayers, illuminated by the full moon which symbolizes the
light which the transfigured heart of the Prophet reflects from the divine
Sun.

At other times, the tekke is peaceful, playing host to humbler local folkways.
Village women come to light candles and then collect the wax, which they use
as a healing ointment. A jug known as a bardak is filled with water and left
near the tomb overnight, after which the water is used to cure various
ailments. The custodian writes zapis, amulets to hang around the necks of
babies, to ward off envious magic and the evil eye. Pilgrims stand by the
cloth-covered sarcophagus of the saint who may or may not be there, and
commune with his immortal spirit.

Set into the wall of the tekke is Sari Saltuk's famous wooden sword, given to
him by Khidr, the "Green Man" who in the Koran appears as the mystical teacher
who warns Moses about the limitations of a purely exoteric religion. In Balkan
Sufism, weapons have a rich spiritual meaning. Two axes crossed symbolize the
union of the two struggles: against injustice in the world, and against the
egotistic passions of the lower self. A sword with two blades is known as
Zulfikar, after the sword wielded by the Prophet's son-in-law Ali, who
exemplified the virtue of futuvvet, spiritual chivalry. Just as the warrior
for his nation abides by a complex Samurai-like code of honour, so too the
inner warrior is a knight of faith, who progresses on the road to God by
maintaining a scrupulous and dignified generosity with God's creatures.

Sufism differs from the great monastic traditions of Christendom in that it
sees the world as a barrier to be traversed, not circumvented. The Sufi does
not withdraw from the world it inwardly. Rumi speaks of khalwat dar anjuman,
isolation in the midst of company, because the woman or man who quests for the
Source of existence is in a state of ghurba, or exile. Following the Koran,
the Sufis hold that the world is a manifestation of God's Names, but it is
still not God. So Yunus Emre can sing:

Let us away, to look upon the Beautiful, The radiance of Whose face can
famished thousands fill.(2)

Sari Saltuk possessed a further, more enigmatic weapon in his arsenal. The
Book of Saltuk, penned by the sage Ebulhayr for the Ottoman prince Jem in the
1480s,(3) tells us that the dragonslayer travelled with a bow and seven
arrows. The number seven resonates with many metaphors in Sufism. One thinks
immediately of the Prophet's Ascension (mi'raj) through the seven heavens into
the ineffable divine Presence, an experience of progressively transformed
consciousness which is the archetype of all Sufi wayfaring.

The number seven also invokes the first chapter of the Koran, which contains
this number of verses and is said mystically to encompass the remainder of the
Book. And in Sari Saltuk's Bektashi teaching, the shapes of the human face
correspond to the letters of the Arabic alphabet. Hence the poet Balim Sultan
could exclaim: "My face is the Seven Oft-repeated Verses."(4) The illumination
of human consciousness "straightens" the features twisted by worldly
ignorance, until the Koran's entire text can be read in the face of the
perfect saint. At this exalted degree, the saint's identity has melted away
into the Divine Word.

In Bektashi Sufism, seven is also the "number of generation." A whole genre of
poems formerly sung at the Buna tekke, known as the Cycle Poems (devrije),
develops the idea that every existent thing has four "mothers," which are the
four elements of Earth, Air, Fire, and Water, through whose mingling are
generated the "Three Children" -- animal, vegetable and mineral things. The
total is seven, and the human creature is the summit and purpose of this
process of creation, for while other beings manifest some of the Divine Names,
the human being manifests them all. Through the transformation of
consciousness, the descendant of Adam and Eve turns away from the multiple
phenomena of existence and faces the solitary Divine, hence becoming God's
true deputy (khalifa) in the cosmos. Only humanity has the ability to do this;
since only the human mind may achieve perfect consciousness.

It is true that animals also share in a kind of self-awareness. The Koran
inquires of us: "Have you not seen that all that is in the heavens and the
earth glorifies God? The birds as they spread their wings? Every creature
knows its form of prayers and its praise; and God is All-Aware of what they
do."(5) Hence the need to respect non-human lives: the Prophet taught, "You
shall be rewarded for kindnesses done to any living thing," and he spoke of a
harlot whose sins were forgiven when God saw her filling her shoe with water
from a well, to quench the thirst of a dog.

And yet human consciousness is above that of animals, because it is gifted
with choice, between good or evil, Reality or illusion, the Centre or the
endless periphery. The Prophet explained that human creatures enshrine more
than an animal soul: "Each one of you has his creation gathered in his
mother's womb for forty days. Then he becomes a clot for a like period. Then
he becomes a piece of flesh. Then God sends the angel, which breathes in the
Spirit."(6)

What is unique about human consciousness, in Muslim teaching, is not the mind
but the Spirit (ruh). The Koran tell us how before God created the world, all
spirits were summoned to appear before the Divine presence, and were asked:
"Am I not your Lord?" "Yes, we testify!" they cried. And Koran explains: "That
was lest you should claim at the Resurrection, `We were unaware of all
this'"(7)

In this Koranic vision, then, our consciousness existed before we were born,
and was only "breathed" into our mothers during pregnancy. Before then, in
that pre-existent arena which the Prophet described as the World of Spirits
(alam-al-arwah, our consciousness was of a pure, quintessential nature, and
our individual selfhood, which is the result of accumulated experiences and
education, was only latent. Our full humanity, then, and our capacity to turn
towards or away from the Real, can only come about when the Real plunges us
into the world, or, as the builders of the Buna sanctuary might have put it,
when we become fish in the river. The task and function of human
consciousness, then, is to remember the Source. Ultimately, it has no other
purpose.

The ascent from lower to higher states of consciousness is the process which
the Sufis term Wayfaring (suluk); and it is here, surely, that we can best
find the meaning of Sari Saltuk's seven arrows, and also of his seven tombs.
The Prophet passed through seven heavens during his Ascension to God, and then
affirmed that "prayer is the believer's Ascension." And the wayfarers, as they
follow his footsteps, and sit with eyes half-closed on their prayer-carpets in
the Buna sanctuary, know that they too must fight seven battles and experience
seven "deaths." The soul must perish seven times before it rises into the
divine Presence from which it came.

Hence the Sufis often describe the soul (nafs) as passing through seven
"degrees" (maratib).(8) The lowest is the Inciting Soul (al-nafs al-ammara),
which is the human consciousness helpless before the demands of the lower
possibilities of our condition. This "bestial" soul is prey to arrogance,
greed, bad character, gluttony, and the other familiar vices which the Prophet
condemned. The cure is to compel oneself to recite certain Koranic litanies
prescribed by a spiritual director.

Once overcome, the Inciting Soul is replaced by the Reproachful Soul (al-nafs
al-lawwama). The soul in this condition is still vulnerable to the subtler
vices, such as self-satisfaction and a yearning to be admired, but it
recognizes these traits and does battle with them. At this level, the
conscience becomes the chief weapon against flaws in the consciousness. The
preferred litany at this stage is, in many Sufi Orders, said to be the simple
repetition of the Divine Name, Allah: the keenest arrow in Sari Saltuk's
quiver.

The third degree is the Inspired Soul (al-nafs al-mulhama). Here the
beginner's vices have been scoured from the heart, and the divine Light begins
to gleam. One sage remarks of this degree: "Its attributes are liberality,
resignation, knowledge, forgiving people, inviting them to rectitude,
accepting their excuses, and seeing that the Exalted God holds all things by
their forelocks."(9) At this stage the heart, seat of the spirit, is, as the
Prophet said, "like a feather blown about by the wind."(10)

The end of this station is the first Annihilation (fana), where the individual
consciousness of the wayfarer is "noughted" by the Divine Presence. At the
middle of the Path, this experience is fleeting, and it is followed by a
return (ruju) to human consciousness. This is defined as the fourth degree:
the Serene Soul (al-nafs al-mutma'inna). As the Real's trusted deputy, the
possessor of such a soul can work wonders, breaking the laws of existence with
God's leave. Sari Saltuk himself worked countless miracles: when the Mongols
threatened Turkey, he flew to the Romanian coast on his prayer rug, followed
by twelve thousand disciples. Merely hearing his voice could convert thousands
of heathens to Islam; the sight of him would turn magicians into stone.

The final three stages are veiled in mystery, as the Sufi writers hold that
language cracks and grows treacherous under the weight of such sublime
realities. They are known technically as the Contented Soul, the Soul Found
Pleasing, and the Perfect Soul. As the condition of Annihilation becomes more
permanent, the saint increasingly exists only in a physical sense. This is
what a Bosnian Sufi meant when he once shared with me this traditional
paradox: "Know that although true saints do not exist, God has created many of
them."

Seven degrees; hence seven deaths, and seven rebirths in God. "People are
asleep," the Prophet said, "and when they die, they awake," But he also
commanded: "Die before you die!" The journey is arduous, as Yunus Emre sings:

Long is the Road, and many the stages to be reached: No easy defiles, deep the
torrents to be crossed.(11)

And yet as this poet, so popular even today in Bosnia, remind us, there are
rewards incalculable:

My life together with the Friend is like the sun in swirling cloud. Moments
there are his Face is veiled -- then see, His beauty is revealed!(12)

In a place such as the Buna tekke, the beauty of nature is invoked as a
summons to introspection. It triggers a self-awareness in the hope that we
will recall our glorious origins in the divine Fountainhead. The tekke, no
doubt through the unseen intercession of Sari Saltuk himself, has survived the
chaos of war, and once again hosts pilgrims who wish to travel against the
stream, in the hope that they too shall confront the ultimate miracle and
mystery of existence. May that journey be shortened, as the Sufis say, and may
it continue forever.

NOTES

(1.) Tone Bringa, Being Muslim the Bosnian Way (Princeton: Princeton
University Press, 1995), pp. 221-2.

(2.) The City of the Heart, translated by Suha Faiz (Shaftesbury, England:
Element, 1992), p. 17.

(3.) Saltukname, edited by S. Akalin (Ankara and Istanbul, 1988-90).

(4.) A. Golpinarli, Alevi-Bektasi nefesleri (Istanbul: Remzi Kitabevi, 1963),
p.24.

(5.) Koran, 18:41.

(6.) Muslim, Qadr, no. 1.

(7.) Koran, 7:172.

(8.) The clearest exposition is in A. al-Shabrawi, The Degrees of the Soul
(London: Quilliam Press, 1997).

(9.) Ibid., p. 36.

(10.) Ibn Maja, Muqaddima, no. 10.

(11.) Faiz, p. 18.

(12.) Ibid., p. 14.
                                                                              
                                -- End --

