Characteristics of a Sufi Teacher

Q:
How can I discriminate between a "real" teacher and a charlatan?

A:
The relationship with the teacher is an artificial creation with the
intention of aiding us in the process of awakening to our true state.
Sometimes we can have more to learn by the relationship with a
charlatan than we can with a true teacher. Sometimes by going through
those relationships which we look back on and think, "How could I have
ever ...?" we prepare ourselves to be in a relationship with a real
teacher.

There are, however, certain primal guidelines that one should be aware
of. Firstly, a real teacher will never, under any circumstances, ask
you to violate your own conscience. Our conscience is the signature of
the Creator in each one of us, and no teacher, whether physical or on
the inner planes, is greater than the Creator. Hence, let your
conscience be your guide.

Secondly, these days there is an attribute that seems out of vogue in
our relationship to spiritual teachers, and that is the attribute of
common sense. If something appears to completely lack any touch of
common sense, step back for a bit and take a deeper look. The great
teacher of the dharma, Padmasambhava, espoused the virtue of common
intelligence when teaching his disciples eons ago. It might not be
romantic or fashionable, but it will help to keep you out of the grips
of unscrupulous human beings masquerading as teachers.

Thirdly, a real teacher will stretch you, but never to the breaking
point. They will not ask you to do, think, or feel that which is
beyond your capability at any moment. It's for the student, as well as
the teacher, to know when they're stretching and when they're
breaking. Please bear in mind that the essence of spirituality is
balance.

And finally, always look at the students of the teacher. Do they seem
natural? Healthy? Balanced? Humorous? Joyous? And most importantly, do
they shine? If they shine, do they shine from the surface or from the
depth? If it's from the depth, is the light clear, compassionate, and
welcoming, or cloudy and closed?

There is one more factor: Many real teachers protect themselves with a
veneer of characteristics designed to repel the weak-kneed. If you are
drawn to a teacher by a powerful force of love, then have the courage
to not run at the first sign of odd behavior from the teacher. The
real teachers have much to give to those who are prepared to receive.
