When the great Sufi mystic, Hasan, was dying, somebody asked "Hasan, who
was your master?"

He said, "I had thousands of masters. If I just relate their names it will
take months, years and it is too late. But three masters I will certainly
tell you about.

One was a thief. Once I got lost in the desert, and when I reached a
village it was very late, everything was closed. But at last I found one
man who was trying to make a hole in t he wall of a house. I asked him
where I could stay and he said 'At this time of night it will be
difficult, but you can say with me - if you can stay with a thief'

And the man was so beautiful. I stayed for one month! And each night he
would say to me, 'Now I am going to my work. You rest, you pray.' When he
came back I would ask 'Could you get anything?' He would say, 'Not
tonight. But tomorrow I will try again, God willing.' He was never in a
state of hopelessness, he was always happy.

When I was meditating and meditating for years on end and nothing was
happening, many times the moment came when I was so desperate, so
hopeless, that I thought to stop all this nonsense. And suddenly I would
remember the thief who would say every night, 'God willing, tomorrow it is
going to happen.'

And my second master was a dog. I was going to the river, thirsty and a
dog came. He was also thirsty. He looked into the river, he saw another
dog there -- his own image -- and became afraid. He would bard and run
away, but his thirst was so much that he would come back. Finally, despite
his fear, he just jumped into the water, and the image disappeared. And I
knew that a message had come to me from God: one has to jump in spite of
all fears.

And the third master was a small child. I entered a town and a child was
carrying a lit candle. he was going to the mosque to put the candle there.

'Just joking,' I asked the boy, 'Have you lit the candle yourself?' He
said, 'Yes sir.' And I asked, 'There was a moment when the candle was
unlit, then there was a moment when the candle was lit. Can you show me
the source from which the light came?'

And the boy laughed, blew out the candle, and said, 'Now you have seen the
light going. Where has it gone? You will tell me!'

My ego was shattered, my whole knowledge was shattered. And that moment I
felt my own stupidity. Since then I dropped all my knowledgeability.

It is true that I had no master. That does not mean that I was not a
disciple -- I accepted the whole existence as my master. My Disciplehood
was a greater involvement than yours is. I trusted the clouds, the trees.
I trusted existence as such. I had no master because I had millions of
masters I learned from every possible source. To be a disciple is a must
on the path. What does it mean to be a disciple? It means to be able to
learn. to be available to learn to be vulnerable to existence. With a
master you start learning to learn.

The master is a swimming pool where you can learn how to swim. Once you
have learned, all the oceans are yours.








