From: TTU::SAZ4459      "Beneath the Stone and Hardened Dirt Lies Mud" 17-APR-1999 02:58:30.48
To:   CONNIE
CC:   ME
Subj: Cold; Duality, assumptions

Dear Connie,

Sorry i didn't help garden today. I actually woke up around 4 this
afternoon. I've spent a large portion of my time since then in bed
wrapped up in a blanket. (It is so damn *cold*! Someone said in the
lounge one day that the AC in the girls' dorms had been turned on.
Steve Banks said, "You know what that means? The weather's going to
get cold again." And darn if he wasn't right. The tv says it's 42
degrees now. And just last week, it was hot enough for me to sleep w/
a window open. <sigh> Once i gave up hoping that one simple comforter
would keep me warm, i unrolled my jeans cuffs to cover my ankles, and
put on a pair of house slippers and a sweatshirt. I became remarkably
less grumpy when my feet became remarkably less cold.)

I was catching up on the sf bbs, and came across johnny's explanation
of fractals. he said that julia sets can either be completely
connected or completely disconnected, no in-between. After i read on a
little while, i stopped and thought about that, and found that i was
unable to think of a julia set that was in-between connected and
disconnected. I couldn't break the duality. Now that i think about it
some more, i don't think it was the statement "there is no in-between"
that locked off possibilities in my mind. It was the assumption i made
when the two groups were initially described. I assumed that there was
no other kind other than the two described.

I imagine many people imagine that what they see at first glance is
all there is. That would probably make learning math a bitch. It
doesn't help that when kids try to "break" "rules", they get slapped
down. Why won't the teacher explain negative numbers when a kid asks
"If 3+2=5 and 2+3=5, and 3-2=1, does 2-3=1?" I guess it's easier for a
kid to learn subtraction if taught that you're not supposed to
subtract a greater number from a lesser number, but i think that...
well, for one thing, it's kinda like lying. The teacher knows that it
really is possible to subtract a greater from a lesser.

Oh well. I guess they just plan on teaching the kids when they think
the kids are ready.

Still, higher up, it's harder to break boxes. What the hell, exactly,
*is* an imaginary number? I know that it's a multiple of the square
root of -1. But what does it represent? I can fudge complex numbers.
1+5i. Real+Imaginary. And it's cute the way they represent them on a
graph by putting the real component on one axis and the imaginary
component on the other. It's like adding apples and oranges. [One
apple]+[5 oranges] =...um, [1 apple]+[5 oranges].

But what exactly does an imaginary number represent? I got the
counting numbers down. Then zero was no big deal. Negative numbers
mean "take away an amount". fractions mean "pieces of integers". And
then, the teacher says, "Squre root of a negative number is undefined.
The empty set." And then they teach us, once upon a time, a
mathematician said, "Gosh, i'm bored today. I think i'll pretend the
square root of -1 exists. And i'll call it 'i'."

What the hell is "i"? Whether i've known it or not, for the past 17
years or so i've been thinking of numbers in terms of The Real Numbers
and various subsets. "i" has pretty much nothing what-the-hell-so-ever
to do with The Real Numbers. How do i visualize it? What *is* it?

Hm... what else was i going to talk about? I got up and took a shower
in the middle of this letter. Really warmed me up. Hm... i seem to
have forgotten. Well, one of the things was that Gloria is also of the
opinion that i need to get the hell out of my room. I was out and
about a good bit the week before this past one. But i stayed in it
pretty much the entirety of this week.

Boy, i'm sleepy. G'night.

L,
-shafi

