	TEC Talk

Good morning!

(begin with reading of 1 Cor 13?)


When they gave me the title of my talk for this TEC, I laughed out
loud -- "God is a Community of Love", they said, and I was supposed
to explain this in twenty minutes or less?  I felt as if I could
talk for hours on any one of the words in that statement:  God,
Community, Love -- all these are topics of whole volumes (and since
I'm a linguist, I could probably talk for hours on the words is, a,
and of, but I'll spare you the gory details of that particular
subject!).

But when I sat down to write the talk, I kept drawing a blank.  I
would put it off, telling myself I was too busy, that I wasn't in
the right frame of mind, that I'd do a little more thinking about
it first.  I realized that this was a topic I could talk about in
20 seconds, or 20 years, but not 20 minutes -- how can you explain
the whole philosophy of your life in 20 minutes?  I tried lots of
ways to get around the block; I teach composition, and so I even
tried to use all the tricks I train my students to use -- make an
outline, compile all your sources on note cards, brainstorm, talk
your topic out with a friend -- and none of it worked.

I prayed about it, and I looked at scripture -- and believe me,
there's a lot in the New Testament about love, especially if you
look at the gospel of John.  But I realized that just to get up
here and quote the "God is Love" passage from 1 John wasn't enough
-- what does it mean to say God is love, that God is a community of
love?  Telling someone that -- that God is love -- doesn't mean
very much to someone who has never known God, who has never known
community, who has never known love.  So I decided to give you a
little bit of my own experience with all three of those words (and
if you want my experience with the words is, a, and of, come see me
after the talk is over and I'll be glad to share that with you,
too).

So let's start with my experience of God -- the big one.  I'm not
going to stand up here and pretend to define God -- the whole point
of the God thing in the first place is that it is beyond human
definition, beyond name, beyond symbol.  But we have all sorts of
images of God, ways of understanding God, that are part of the
Christian tradition that I grew up with.  The problem with these
images all of my life, however, is that none of them ever did
anything for me.  Probably the first one that we all hear is "God
is like a father", because children can relate directly to what
it's like to have a father.  In my case, though, this probably did
more harm than good.  My own experience of fathers was pretty
dismal; my natural father did drugs, slept around on my mother, was
almost never home from about the time I was 5 or 6, and left for
good when I was 9.  I've seen him three times since then, and every
time has been a very painful experience for me.  When I was 14, my
mother remarried, this time to an alcoholic who was abusive,
especially to my brother, and they divorced after I left home for
college.  So adding all of this up, my idea of father is absent,
alcoholic, abusive, unpredictable, untrustworthy, unreliable -- and
so calling God "father", for me, immediately put up walls about a
billion miles high; that image meant nothing to me.  

There are other images of God, of course -- God is like a shepherd,
for instance -- but I know not thing one about sheep.  And "God is
love" really meant nothing to me, either -- I had never known it in
my family, which as you might guess was pretty dysfunctional as a
result of all the stuff going on already, and it's pretty hard for
kids to love themselves when they don't have the experience of love
around them.

And so I rejected the whole idea of God -- there was nothing that
could prove to me that there was a God, that there was such a thing
as love, that such a thing could be possible.  All of this adds up
to a fifteen-year-old atheist, who was forced to go to church by
her mother, because it was the Baptist thing to do on Sundays, but
(unknown to her, and unknown to all but a very few people, until
now) I would sit in the bathroom all through Sunday School because
I couldn't stand being in a classroom full of hypocrisy, full of a
father God that I couldn't believe in.  I'd rejoin my mother for
the worship service, and would sing the songs because I loved music
(and still do, as you might have guessed), but tuned out pretty
much everything else.

I stayed pretty much a profound atheist all the way through high
school, and when I went to college I immediately stopped going to
church on Sundays, but would go with my mother and brother when I
went back home to avoid the conflict that would have ensued if I
had refused to go.  I started out as a computer science major,
which seemed to me a very rational and lucrative thing to do, and
so for my first two years at Tennessee Tech I did the whole
computer science thing -- Pascal programming, data structures, a
year of honors calculus, chemistry, the whole spiel -- getting A's
and B's but realizing that I hated every minute of it.  All through
that time, however, I was maintaining a second major in Spanish
(because I loved language so much), and through some of my
humanities classes and the science fiction club, I met Dr. Connie
Hood, a rather unconventional professor of English who was the
science fiction club sponsor and who took students under her wing
in a program she called Mentor -- "here, go read this, and when
you've read it, come back and tell me about it," she'd basically
say.  I found myself part of Mentor, and found myself reading a lot
of literature, a lot of poetry, a lot of psychology -- and all of
this reading wasn't for any class, but just because the students
she worked with loved what they were doing.  We had just started
studying myth and ritual from various times in history, and since
Dr. Hood was a Catholic, she wanted us all to go to a Sunday Mass
so that we could experience a modern-day expression of a ritual
that went back for over a thousand years.  I can remember really
not wanting to go -- I didn't believe in God, and I certainly
didn't believe in church, but I remember respecting Dr. Hood so
much, respecting her intellect, and respecting her as a person,
that I said I would go.

My reaction to it was very strange.  Most of the time I was there
I felt so angry that I wanted to scream.  There was one person in
particular that I was focusing a lot of my anger on, a cantor [Sheila!] in
the choir that was up in front of the congregation.  I remember
looking at her and saying, "she doesn't believe a word she's
singing.  She just wants everyone to see how pious she is.  Why is
she being such a hypocrite?"  And I stood there and seethed at her. 
And then I looked around at the congregation and thought, "why are
all these people here?  Why are they here when there is no God and
they all know it?"  But at the same time, there were times when I
felt like I would burst out crying at a moment's notice, and I was
at a loss to say why.  I mostly kept that to myself, though, and
after Mass I talked to Dr. Hood, who said, "so what did you think?" 
"Well, that person singing up in front of the congregation was
really getting me mad," I said.  "She doesn't believe any of that
stuff; she just wants everyone to see how holy she is."  

Dr. Hood took a deep breath, and looked me straight in the eye, and
said very slowly, "Deanna, you don't know that."  And I was
speechless -- because she was right.  I didn't know that.  Those
words have stuck with me until this very day -- and it was the
first time that I realized that what I was seeing all around me as
hypocrisy and unbelief was really my own unbelief.  Since I
couldn't believe in God, since I couldn't believe in love, I
somehow thought it was impossible for anyone to really believe in
those things, either.  And since it was impossible for anyone to
believe in God, or in love, since those things didn't really exist,
I thought, any expression of love anyone made to me I would
immediately deny, or tag as insincere.  But the question I started
asking myself then was this:  what if there are people who really
do believe in it?  What if that cantor really did believe what she
was singing?  What if the total stranger who hugged me in the
middle of the service really meant it?  What if these people don't
just believe in God, but are experiencing God for themselves?  And
those questions really shook me up.

It was a few months after that first Mass that Dr. Hood told me
about a retreat that was being sponsored by the university's
Catholic student group -- a retreat very much like this one -- and
suggested that I go.  And I laughed, pretty much, in her face -- "a
Christian retreat?  You want me to go on a Christian retreat? 
You've got to be kidding!"  But she told me that it was a thing
that she wanted all her Mentor students to do, and made it a Mentor
assignment, which pretty much meant that you couldn't refuse to do
it.  Oh, you could refuse, but then again, you couldn't.  

So I went.  And as soon as I walked into the Newman Center where
the retreat was being held, I felt something I had never felt
before.  These people were smiling, not shallow smiles but real
ones that came from far down within the people who wore them; they
hugged each other, and they hugged me -- and they were real hugs --
not those kind of masculine thump-you-on-the-back hugs, or those
sorority-girl hugs, but a real hug, a hug where the person hugging
you opens himself completely to you, and accepts you completely as
the person you are.  (demonstrate this?)  

I couldn't have said it then -- but the thing I was feeling all
during this retreat was the second major word in the title of my
talk:  community -- the first time I had ever experienced it in my
life.  It was an environment where you could be whatever you were,
whoever you were, and be accepted completely for it.  For the first
time in my life, I felt like I didn't have to hide who I was, that
I didn't have to be constantly on my guard against getting hurt,
that I could be completely who I was with these people and not be
afraid.  By the end of the retreat, the people there had shared a
great deal of themselves with each other, and we had all shared a
powerful set of experiences together over the three days we spent
at the Newman Center.

Now, if you look around the room this morning, you can get at least
some idea of the kind of thing I'm talking about.  The people in
this room are the only people in the world who know what we went
through together yesterday -- (insert some concrete examples here). 
Look around at the people in your groups -- you know each other
much more deeply than you did when you first arrived here, and
believe me, you'll be even closer by the time the weekend is over. 
Look at the walls, at the carpet, at the fireplace, at the cross,
at the candle that is the symbol of our time together -- and if
you're really seeing them, they'll look different to you now, now
that we've all shared experience here together.

I also don't think I could have said this at the time of my first
retreat, but looking back, what I was experiencing -- really for
the first time in my life -- was the third major element of my
talk's title:  love.  Now, we have a lot of different ideas about
what love is, and the scriptures talk a great deal about it, as I
said before.  But the medieval idea of courtly love and its
subsequent development into the modern idea of romantic love can't
help but have distorted whatever idea of love they were talking
about 2000 years ago.   When we say "God is Love", do we mean the
same kind of hormonal imbalance that we get when we see the man of
our dreams across a crowded room?  Do we mean that God is the kind
of love we have for our dog, or for freedom, or (my personal
favorite) for Cherry Coke?  No, we don't.  

So what do we mean?  My own ideas of what love really is began with
my reading of some (admittedly soft) psychology in the Mentor
program.  Carl Rogers talked in his book On Becoming A Person about
what he called "unconditional positive regard," which is where I
think we pick up the word unconditional when we describe love, and
said that it was of primary importance in the relationship between
therapist and patient.  Scott Peck in his book The Road Less
Traveled defined love as "the will to extend one's self for one's
own or another's spiritual growth," which moves the definition out
of the exclusive realm of psychotherapy and into the world of
everyday human relationships.  

As much as I like Scott Peck's definition, "the will to extend
one's self for one's own or another's spiritual growth," I think
it's a little bit intellectualized -- to really know what it means,
you have to live it.  For my own self, I know that love is not a
noun -- love is a verb.  Love is not a feeling -- love is action. 
Love is opening yourself to another person; love is extending
yourself to another person.  Love is being authentically who you
are, even though opening yourself to your whole self might be
painful.  Love is seeing a look of pain on another person's face
and saying "what's wrong?" and really wanting an answer.  Love is
what Connie Hood did for me not long after my first retreat,
sitting out behind the altar one morning at 3 AM as I talked,
sobbing uncontrollably, about the incomprehensible feelings of the
presence of God I was having, feelings which, as an atheist, I was
having profound difficulty integrating into the rest of my
understanding of the world.  Love is (use another concrete
example here) 

And the thing is this:  for a while, loving is something you have
to do consciously.  You have to think, "now, the loving response to
this situation would be this," and then you do it.  But after a
while, it's as if it simply becomes part of your nature.  There are
times when it's difficult, of course -- especially when you're
trying to love someone you don't happen to like very much.  And
it's very hard to do, sometimes.  The Franciscan Brennan Manning
tells a story about being in New York City after a play, talking
with some friends outside a theater after a wonderful play.  A
homeless woman came up to him, saw his Roman collar and,
interrupting, asked if she could talk to him for a minute.  "Can't
you see I'm busy?" he snapped.  She looked at him very quietly. 
"Jesus wouldn't have talked to Mary Magdalene that way," she said,
and as he turned to look at her, she was gone.  He says that he's
been looking for that woman all his life since, but has never seen
her again.  Even Jesus had trouble with it sometimes, like with the
Samaritan woman who not only came to him when he was dead tired,
but also didn't happen to smell very nice at the time.  "It isn't
right to take the children's food and give it to the dogs," he
said, probably indulging in the very human wish that she would just
go away.  "But even the dogs can eat the crumbs from the master's
table," she said.   Touche.   

But if we're truly living the Christian message, it becomes so that
we don't have to think about being loving any more -- it just sort
of happens.  And that is what the Christian message is all about. 
We say "God is Love," and we say that God dwells within each one of
us, and we say that all who live in love live in God -- which are
all just sort of abstract statements until you have felt and
experienced and known first hand what it is like to be love in a
world that is crying out for it, what it is like to be light in a
world living in darkness.  This is what it means "not to hide your
light under a bushel", what it means to be "the city set on a hill"
-- it means being openly loving, openly caring, openly and
authentically yourself in a world that you are desperately afraid
won't respond to your love, will reject your caring, and will stomp
all over your fragile self.

That's why I'm here this weekend; that's why I call myself
Christian; that's the basis of my belief in God.  I'm here because
I have experienced love first-hand.  I may still have trouble with
the abstract concept of God sometimes, and I may still have twinges
of rational disbelief, especially when I get down on myself, or
down on the world, or when I despair about whether anything anybody
does can make any difference in the world -- but even at those
times, although it takes a while sometimes, I find myself always
going back to my experience of love, to my experiential knowledge
that love exists, that love endures, that love is the only thing in
the world that is of any importance.

(now read 1 Cor 13 -- either KJV or my paraphrase)

end with song:  "Where There Is Love" by David Haas
"Where there is love, there is God.
 The love of God has gathered us together, alleluia!
 
 Love is patient, love is kind,
 Never jealous, never proud,
 Never seeking for one's self
 Love never leads to anger 
 
 Love is gracious and forgiving
 Taking no delight in wrong
 Love rejoices in the truth
 Love will endure
 
 Many things will pass awy
 There are but three things that last
 Faith, hope, and love
 The greatest of these is love."






