The Cracked Pot

A water bearer in India had two large pots, each hung on each end of a
pole which he carried across his neck.  One of the pots had a crack in
it, and while the other pot was perfect and always delivered a full
portion of water at the end of the long walk from the stream to the
master's house, the cracked pot arrived only half full.

For a full two years this went on daily, with the bearer delivering only
one and a half pots full of water in his master's house.  Of course, the
perfect pot was proud of its accomplishments, perfect to the end for
which it was made.  But the poor cracked pot was ashamed of its own
imperfection, and miserable that it was able to accomplish only half of
what it had been made to do.

After two years of what it perceived to be a bitter failure, it spoke to
the water bearer one day by the stream.  "I am ashamed of myself, and I
want to apologize to you."  "Why?" asked the bearer.  "What are you
ashamed of?" "I have been able, for these past two years, to deliver
only half my load because this crack in my side causes water to leak out
all the way back to your master's house. Because of my flaws, you have
to do all of this work, and you don't get full value from your
efforts,"  the pot said.  The water bearer felt sorry for the old
cracked pot, and in his compassion he said, "As we return to the
master's house, I want you to notice the beautiful flowers along the
path."

Indeed, as they went up the hill, the old cracked pot took notice of the
sun warming the beautiful wild flowers on the side of the path, and this
cheered it some.  But at the end of the trail, it still felt bad because
it had leaked out half its load, and so again it apologized to the
bearer for it's failure.

The bearer said to the pot, "Did you notice that there were flowers only
on your side of your path, but not on the other pot's side?  That's
because I have always known about your flaw, and I took advantage of
it.  I planted flower seeds on your side of the path, and every day
while we walk back from the stream, you've watered them.  For two years
I have been able to pick these beautiful flowers to decorate my master's
table.  Without you being just the way you are, he would not have this
beauty to grace his house."

Each of us has our own unique flaws.  We're all cracked pots.  But if we
will allow it, the Lord will use our flaws to grace His Father's table.
In God's great economy, nothing goes to waste. So as we seek ways to
minister together, and as God calls you to the tasks.  He has appointed
for you, don't be afraid of your flaws.

Acknowledge them, and allow Him to take advantage of them, and you, too,
can be the cause of beauty in His pathway. Go out boldly, knowing that
in our weakness we find His strength, and that "In Him every one of
God's promises is a Yes."

