Alfred Mindwalk on the universe:


I half watched a National Geographic special last Wednesday (through supper
and wrapping gifts), it was a composite of many different National
Geographic specials that 'positioned' man in the universe's continuum. It
started with some stuff on the most common interpretation of the big bang,
then it covered the expansion of the universe and the vastness thereof.
Focused in on one small planet and then followed the development of life.
Evolution of life from single celled water organisms, to plants and animals
and then migration to land. The dinosaurs and a possible cause of their
extinction (big meteor, it talked about how easily that would scramble life
as we know it), then they came to primates, which finally leads us to homo
sapiens. They did some cultural perspectives on ancient civilizations in
different areas and then we finally get near modern man.

All of this had a surprisingly strong effect on me. I had pretty much
adopted an evolutionary stance to life, not that i believe that it is
really 'correct' in its current form, but i believe that it is a basically
reasonable model. I was raised church of christ and instant creationism. I
had adopted some limited evolution into that framework before i left the
church, so it was a fairly comfortable step to say there was no divine
creation just amazingly coincidental evolution.

BUT i realized when i watched the show that i had only adopted this notion
at a superficial level. deep down i still believed that a divine being had
guided life, that we were are all valuable because some divine being had
breathed life into us. Seeing the procession of time led me to forget that
notion for a moment and the results were that i actually saw myself as a
tiny step in 'survival of the fittest'. Just an 'accident' of a vastly huge
and ancient universe. My church of christ morals, which i still held for
the most part, where suddenly irrelevant, my confidence in a benign
universe was suddenly gone, i am here only because i happen to live between
ice ages and meteors. today is suddenly much less a gift (it was not made
for me), it is just a coincidence.

I have been struggling to be able to put the meaning of all of this into
words.  It is oddly liberating. I do not 'owe' today to a creator or even
to my neighbor. i can choose to be predator or to be prey and there is no
inherent rightness or wrongness on either choice. It just is. Both are part
of the system, would the system be better with fewer predators? that
question can not be asked because the system exists as it does because
there are exactly the number and types of predators that we have. (what
does 'better' mean anyway?)
So i am free at last. free to choose what i will do and what i will be.
each day that i live is entirely mine, because i have no other context for
it.

On a different level, i discovered that i more or less believe that mankind
will continue to exploit the resources of the planet with more and more
severe consequences. from energy sources to pollution to population growth
until the resources of the 'system' are taxed to the point of carrying no
more. Then things will get rather nasty. Weapons are now so advanced that
war becomes more problematic, especially when entire cultures are suffering
environmental collapse while others still get by. I make no predictions
about when this will happen, or how it will start, i do not even believe
that there is anything that can prevent it (perhaps it can be forestalled).

We all swing by a tenuous thread, i think it will break someday but
probably not for a few generations.

The main change was the genuine realization that i am a free agent. of
course i maintain my allegiance to society, but i can choose otherwise if i
am willing to take the responsibility. Existentialism becomes personal? and
i am free.
