With another school year half way to an end, just take this time to
thank and remember all your friends. Friends....those people you know,
like, and trust. Those people who see and know your moods. Those
people who know all the embarrassing things you did when you were
younger. Those people who you told about your crushes, even though now
you wonder, "what was I thinking." Those people who did you favors.
Those people you have fun with. Those people who let you copy their
homework, who share their snack with you, who give you a friendly
"sup" or wave when they see you.

Send this out to those friends you just met this year through school,
through work, through friends, or just while hanging out at the mall,
beach or club. And no matter if you've grown into best friends or have
just become acquaintances, let them know that you're glad to have met
them. That you hope to continue being friends for years to come.

Send this out to those friends you've grown out of touch with. The
ones you were friends with in elementary or intermediate school and
suddenly, when you got into high school you hardly talked to anymore.
Or the ones that moved out of town or changed schools and for some
reason you just haven't had time to write or call. Send this to them
just to say hi and to let them know that you haven't forgotten them.
That you appreciate their friendship and that you cherish all the
memories you shared with them. And to remind them that although people
change and lives get rearranged, friends are friends forever. And even
if you no longer have anything in common, you do share the same
memories.

Send this out to those friends you don't know too well. The ones you
don't really talk on the phone or go out with, but who you do exchange
a friendly hi or a smile with when you do see each other. The ones you
have a conversation with only when you run into them. Send this out to
them just to let them know that although you're not close, you do care
about them and you wish them nothing but the best.

Send this out to those you consider your closest. The best friend
you've had since 1st grade. The ones you go out with every weekend.
The ones who've grown into the brothers and sisters you've never had.
The ones who listen to you complain about school, your boyfriends or
girlfriends, family, or anything else no matter how stupid or boring
it is. The ones who know your secrets and will go out of their way to
be there for you. Who you're comfortable with telling all your secrets
too. Send this to them just to let them know that you appreciate them
being there for you and that you'll always be there for them.

Send this out to those friends who fall somewhere in between one of
the above categories. To those friends you've grown into enemies with.
Send this to them to let them know that no matter what happened
between the two of you, that you hope you can be forgiven. To those
people you may have just met once but had a cool time with. To those
people you may have gotten off to a rocky start with but who you would
still like to get to know.

There are many types of friends. They come in all different shapes and
sizes. Some are closer than others. But no matter what friends are
friends forever. Sometimes we take for granted our friends. Sometimes
we don't let them know that we care or that we appreciate them.
Sometimes we get so busy or so involved with other things that we
begin to grow out of touch with our friends. Take this time to
remember how lucky you are to have such great friends and to thank all
those friends you've made over the years. Thank them and let them know
you care.

Thanks for being there when no one was, when I was lost in my own
world, scared, happy, nervous, and feeling like everyone else was
somehow prettier or just better. Thanks for being my friends because
friends are friends forever.



