On Nay-saying

For years now I've been flirting with spiritual disciplines and
practices. Nothing ever stuck. I'm starting to feel hopelessly
incapable of discipline. Does that worry me? Nope. I'm also beginning
to realize the nature of an authentic "practice" which I've been
"doing" for years without realizing it was a "practice".

I say 'no'. That's the simplest way to say it, but still, it's
misleading to say that. Let's examine the words:
 I: but the "saying of 'no'" is not done by any "I".

 say: it's not so much "said" as felt.

 'no': "no" is such a forceful and final word in our culture. The 'no'
I'm talking about is not forceful; actually, it's more of a
"non-force", a force which comes into being for the sole purpose of
negating other forces and thereby restoring balance and harmony to the
system.

"Saying 'no'" is something that has come out of my being naturally for
years.  In my awareness now it seems associated with beliefs and their
negation.  Examples:
'No' to beliefs of others concerning how life should be lived.
'No' to my own beliefs concerning how life should be lived.
'No' to beliefs of others about God.
'No' to my beliefs about God.
'No' to what others believe I am.
'No' to what I believe myself to be.

Connie used to call it "strings": I have "strings" that connect to
beliefs, and get pulled by certain experiences. The process of
"letting go" of strings attached to (major) beliefs has been going on
for 6 years at least (based on recollection), though I feel pretty
sure it's a natural process everybody does all the time at some level.
Recently, through studying Buddhism and Neuro-Linguistic Programming,
I've begun to identify beliefs and their strings with more precision.
So far I've found most "clinging" beliefs involve fear of one sort or
another. Greed, for example, is very common in my belief structure,
though I don't go in for the mundane sorts of greed most people do but
"ultimate greed" such as lust for "enlightenment", omniscience, to be
"one" with all people, etc. Greed seems to be mostly based on fear; in
the previous examples, fear of such things as being cut off, being
alone, becoming stupid, turning out to be a nobody, etc. Connie called
it "tapes", I think, and the tapes say things like:

"You'll miss the boat."
"It's up to you."
"You'll never connect with anybody who can help you."
"You can't survive in the marketplace."
"You need to get out of this town, meet new people, before you stagnate."
"You don't want to end up like them."
"You don't want to get stuck in relationships with people who will pull you
down."
"It is imperative that you offend no one."
"Someday all this hard work will pay off."
"If you hurry up and finish your work, you can do what you want."  (an old
tape from grade school!)
"Your body will get old and weak and you won't be able to do anything."
"If you give up your current habits and beliefs without coming up with a
new plan of action, your life will be ruined."
"The clock is ticking." (an integral belief of several of the others
above, and many more. In my notebooks, I put a little clock by the
fears linked to time. This is another one I have grade school to thank
for. Who says our schools don't do a good job of preparing kids to be
corporate cogs?)

It's not that these things won't happen.  But they are not happening now,
so
why should they affect my decisions?  I'm beginning to get a glimpse (just
a
glimpse) at the fabric of beliefs that covers the whole world in my head
and
limits my actions to a very narrow band of options.  One thing I feel my
"glimpse" entitles me to say: there are so many possibilities my beliefs
prevent me from seeing that my mind shuts down trying to think about the
incredible flexibility and richness of life beyond beliefs.

I'm hardly claiming to have said 'no' to everything. I'm still bound
by many subtle beliefs about all manner of things. Not least is the
belief that "I" must practice a special discipline in order to free
myself from beliefs. It is liberating to realize that a special
practice has been done and continues to be done, not by "me", but by a
"something" I can't even talk about. I suppose it could be called
"intuition", "the true Self", or a number of other things depending on
what one hopes to accomplish by labeling this unknown.

Something calls to me from the depths of my being. There is no need to
go hunting it. Wolfgang Bernard calls it the "song of the sirens."
When I'm still and centered, I hear it. There's no need to try and
"do" anything. The meaning of "practice" shifts from something "to
do", to something that "is done". "I" do not do it. For a long time I
ran around looking for cages to jump into. Maybe that will change now.
Maybe not. Regardless, practice will continue. What will be the
result? Will I ever attain "enlightenment", "original mind",
"liberation"? No.

N
