From: W.J. Holcomb -- <WJH3957@tntech.edu>
To: <heather@skyquest2.net>; <flippy@resnet.gatech.edu>;
<nasrudin@ix.netcom.com>; <baalshem@ufl.edu>; <suthers@cae.wisc.edu>
Sent: Wednesday, October 13, 1999 9:32 AM
Subject: sj: witches


I had a memory that I was meaning to work into my writing about
morality the other day but it slipped my mind.

Turn back the clock a couple of years to 1996 when a young and naive
Will Holcomb arrive on Tech campus. He had a run in with a strange
little old lady named Dr. Hood. Now, he could tell that she was odd,
though from his limited experience he knew not how. All of the people
that he had known back in Bristol had been normal God-fearin'
Christian folk. She seemed not to fit into what he was used to so he
set to figuring out exactly where she was coming from.

Now from Church and experience he knew that there were Christians
which most everyone was, and there were atheists who were jaded and
hateful people, and there were flaky new age types who just did
whatever felt good in the name of religion. There were other religions
too like Buddhists and Islamists and what not but they all lived in
other countries, were vehement and militant in their beliefs, and
performed strange and mysterious rituals.

Well, this Dr. Hood didn't seem especially jaded so atheism was out;
she did however strike him as a bit flaky so more than likely she was
one of those oddball new agers. In order to test his hypothesis he used
the magic of the internet to learn some about this strange hedonistic
belief system. Once he had a basic working knowledge of the tenets he
started testing.

Perhaps the most blatant of his attempts was in the signature of an
e-mail message. "Blessed be" he wrote in closing. Knowing that those
words identified these people one to another. He got no response.
There was no message in reply admitting him to the secret sanctum of
understanding and camaraderie. Befuddled he tried again still with no
results.

Then he found out that she had an interest in  mysticism and esoteric
Christianity so he went off and read some Pagels and alternative
gospel accounts and all was right in the world. =)

Will

P.S. This relates to the morality discussion in that one of the tenets
that I came across in my search of the new age and especially wicca
was the moral precept "as it harms none do ye as ye will." I didn't
like it then and still don't especially in that it establishes no
standards for harm. If you don't say what it means to harm someone
then this seems to be one of those meaningless positions like "child
abuse is bad" or "don't run over old people with your car."


