From: TTU::KTM3828      "Kaitrin Mahar" 15-JUL-1999 14:52:59.23
To:   @SUMMER2.DIS
CC:
Subj: j:quitting mentor

i quit. that's it. pretty simple. the formal aspect of mentor. it's
been a long time since i've really seen the point of me being in...
i've resisted going to meetings (but often gone anyhow), completely
lost track of any goals that really matched up w/those of mentor (if i
ever had them...), and generally been too lazy to actually quit for
quite a while now. i'm tired of being part of the group so often
bitched and whined about, those who are not doing "the Work." while i
realize that most of said bitching and whining is done w/the intent of
motivating/guilt tripping people into doing "the Work," i looked at it
recently and realized a slight problem... it's not that i'm too lazy
to do "the Work." or that i'm balking at any particular piece of it. i
have no interest in it. except those things which i'm doing, which i
think i'd do anyway -- reading interesting things, thinking. i think i
got into mentor mostly for the purpose of doing more of those
things... and i have learned to talk more about them, communicate them
with others. but somehow i got stuck into the groove of thinking that
i couldn't do the same thing w/out the formal group structure... and
it's not true! i finally snapped out of my little haze last night
while discussing various books -- rushdie, _flatland_, etc. -- with
one of the duke students i've met this summer. sort of a sudden rush
of "hey, what the hell have i been doing?"... that combined with a
sudden flurry of enthusiasm around cookeville for defining the group
identity has brought me to the conclusion that the group would
probably be better off w/out me sitting around and doing nothing. (and
not sitting around in the sense of meditating.) so if you've got any
"mentor-only" dis-lists, please take me off. i'm still perfectly open
to journals, conversation, book suggestions, whatever, but i want out
of the formal group known as mentor. since i wasn't doing much anyhow,
i guess it's not really much of a change. more of a personal,
non-hostile declaration of independence. take it as you will.

thanks much!
kaitrin

