	Morality takes shape in our lives in many ways. We begin with the
simple "thou shalt nots" of our parents and church; people tell us not to do
something, and we don't for whatever reasons: because we'll be spanked, go to
jail, be thought badly of, etc. This structure that we get from our parents is
the beginnings of moral conscience, and it grows into an internal guiding
system of right and wrong, of moral and immoral actions. When we look at the
models of moral development like Kholberg's, we see that in the growth to
internalization of moral values we move from an orientation on punishment to
doing something because it's the right thing to do. When we're very young, the
only thing that we understand is that when we do certain things we get punished
for it. This lays in an equality that says "do bad=get punished=it's better."
The problem with this is that when we're older, we have a construct in our
heads that does the punishment, though guilt. So when we do bad, this construct
punishes us by burdening us with guilt and negative feelings. The only problem
is, we no longer have mom and dad to tell us that everything's ok, and the
construct only knows how to punish. We haven't learned to forgive. So when
things don't get better after we've punished ourselves, we assume that it's
because we haven't been punished enough, and we just dig ourselves into a
deeper and deeper hole of self-destruction. If we are to become healthy people,
we have to break those defeating patterns, and try to lay in new patterns of
love and forgiveness.
	When we look at the laws of different cultures, what we usually come up
with is one basic thought: don't hurt people. Moral codes are structures that
allow us to act in ways that will help us interact with people. All too often
we think of morals as being the thou-shalt-nots of childhood, but in fact what
they provide is a system of behavior that outlines the boundaries of healthy
behavior. What happens when we break these boundaries? When we do something
that we believe to be immoral? How do we go about forgiving ourselves, acting
in Love and compassion, and gently learning from our experience? For what we
find is that guilt, taken to the extreme, is an unhealthy and destructive
thing. Used properly, guilt can call us to be aware of things that we have done
that we should not have. We have a picture in our heads (built from our moral
structure) of what we should be, and guilt reminds us when we've moved from
that ideal. But it is only a tool; forgiveness and true healing comes from
letting go of the guilt and allowing ourselves to move on, having learned what
there is to learn from this mistake. It is in this that we find that we are
truly worthy human beings, and that our mistakes validate us as much as our
victories. It is by our mistakes that we learn, for as William Blake says,
"Without contraries there is no progression."

	It's never easy to admit that you're wrong. For me, the hardest thing
for me to accept about myself is that I have done something that is morally
wrong. I've had to deal with this demon in many guises, because I'm not perfect
and that shows through sometimes. What I'm going to talk about is one of the
more painful experiences of my life, and how I've come to deal with it.

	I guess the beginning of the cycle I'm going to talk about was last
semester. I had been going out with Kimberly for a while, and working through
all the crap that students who would be "normal" have to work through. One of
the major things that I had discovered about myself was that I acted many times
out of intense needs: needs to be affirmed, loved, accepted, because I grew up
without a real strong sense of those in my family. This isn't an excuse, just a
reason... I guess if I could excuse it what happened later might not have. But
I know that any attempts to say "Well, looked at this way, I was right" is only
an attempt to rationalize something that I know was wrong.

	While I was in the midst of dealing with all these issues, I met a
person to whom I was very drawn. You know, you meet someone and it just seems
like a long-lost soulmate that you've never met or something, someone with whom
you just click. Well, this person was like that. Looking back, I wonder if
maybe it wasn't that I manipulated her into filling that role for me, but no
one was thinking very clearly at that point in time. Acting out of my needs for
love and intimacy, I convinced her to have sex with me.  

	Sex is a complicated thing any way you look at it. There are a LOT of
things that you never think about until you do it. Sexual responsibility isn't
something that we're normally taught. One thing that I have since burned into
my heart and soul is that sex always has strings. There is no such thing as
"casual sex." And for a person who is trying to be morally mature and
responsible about sex, this is an especially tricky thing. Sex connects us at
such a basic level that we cannot come away from a sexual encounter without
some pretty intense consequences. When it's a committed relationship, like a
marriage, sex reinforces the love and bonds that are between two people, and
makes the relationship stronger, deeper, and more full. But what happens when
there isn't a strong base to fall back on, when there isn't the commitment in
place, is that the closeness of sex ties in deeply with needs for approval and
love and intimacy, and if the people involved have neurotic patterns that come
from the needs, then the sex makes the patterns harder to break, which sends
them deeper into the holes they've dug for themselves. Irresponsible sex is one
of the most destructive things that happens during one's life, and one of the
reasons is that there is really no way to predict how much damage will be done.

	After we had the affair, I was so stricken by guilt over what I'd done
that I told Kimberly about it. Working on a healthy relationship was still
important to me, and a big part of a healthy relationship is honesty. Kimberly
reacted as might be expected; she was very hurt and betrayed. One thing that
she did not do, as I expected her to, was leave; she decided to stay in the
relationship and work on healing it. It has proved to be a very validating base
for me, for which I'm grateful, and the relationship has taught me invaluable
things about myself. But this story's not about her. 

	Above all, I guess, I felt betrayed by myself... after all, how could I
have done such a thing? It was the very thing that I had always condemned
others for doing, and one of the biggest things that I've always feared in my
relationships. So to find out that I was the thing that I most hated was a very
painful experience for me. With a huge load of guilt, shame, and self-hatred, I
began beating myself so that, as I put it, "this would never happen again."
Unlike some of the other times I've done things that I considered wrong, with
this one I didn't bother with the usual games that we play with ourselves,
rationalizing and being defensive; instead, I went on the immediate offensive,
maybe in hopes that if I hurt myself enough nothing that Kimberly or this other
girl could do would hurt me more. Amazing the damage we do to ourselves because
we're afraid of being hurt. What ultimately came of this self-flagellation was
what we call a black hole.

	Black holes are hard to describe unless you've been there. Think of the
most depressed you've ever been, the most hopeless and alone and lost and
hurting, and then multiply that by 1000. When you're in a black hole, it's
exactly that: there's no light, no hope, no faith, nothing. There is simply
NOTHING to hold on to. I felt like I was spiralling down into a bottomless pit
under the weight of my guilt and shame, but I couldn't let up because it was
too much to bear. I just wanted to die. Everything that I saw, touched, felt,
thought, seemed radioactive and burning with pain and fear. Sometimes I felt so
full of energy and rage and pain that I thought I would explode, but most of
the time I just felt incredibly, heart-wrenchingly empty. It was the most
desolate place that I've ever been in my life, with nothing to see but the
black walls of the hole around me. It felt like I was falling into an abyss of
pain and darkness, with everything of value that I'd ever done going with me.
There was nothing I could point to and say "that is pure." Because everything
that I saw was suddenly starkly worthless. It was only when I stopped beating
myself and started looking at myself with compassion and love that I began
coming out of the black hole. 

	Even when you've realized what you need to get out of something like
this (and this counts for dealing with guilt without going into a black hole,
which is smarter than doing them), there are a number of things that you have
to do to complete the cycle of forgiveness, reconciliation and letting go.
First, you need to recognize that you've done something wrong and take
responsibility for your actions. Radical honesty is a must in this process.
This not only means "telling it like it is," but it also means that you don't
blow it out of proportion. After you've recognized your fault, you make what
recompense you can, do what you can do to fix the damage you've done. One of
the problems with immoral actions is that you can never really fix the damage.
The damage can be healed, with love and lots of work, but you can never make it
as though it never happened. That's one of the consequences of immoral acts; it
makes scars that can never be taken away. They can be healed, and if they are
it's a wonderful and growthful process, but you cannot take back the damage. 
	It is essential to see the thing that you've done objectively. In my
experience, I had to look at the largest picture I could, and see clearly all
the damage I'd done, which allows you to see all the reasons why not to do it
again. This is important; this process impresses boundaries and a greater sense
of empathy. When you see clearly, you understand your responsibility and can
begin to learn and let it go.
	Letting go is the final step in healing the wounds that we deal
ourselves. A good metaphor to use is that of the altar. We take all the pain,
all the guilt, and place it on the altar, then, as the saying goes, "Let go and
let God." It is no longer our responsibility to punish ourselves. If we have
learned from the experience, then it is no longer necessary to carry around the
baggage, and we can let it go. Holding on to the pain and the guilt is an
indicator that we are not willing to accept the responsibility of what we're
learning, that we're not willing to give ourselves the love and forgiveness
that we give other people. Here, again, a Christian metaphor is useful; we see
in Christ a beautiful example of compassion. Not only must we be able to view
others with compassion and Love, we must be able to see that in ourselves. We
are worth saving. We are worth Loving.
	What I learned about dealing with guilt and betrayal is that you don't
beat yourself into healing. Healing doesn't work that way. Guilt is a good
thing; it tells us when we've strayed from our ideal picture of ourselves, and
if we have a realistic picture of our ideal self, it's a very good thing. But
when we use guilt as a method of punishment we lose sight of what guilt is for.
That was one of my mistakes in dealing with this; I thought if I beat myself
hard enough that the pain would go away... if God saw me suffering as much as I
was then he'd magically take away the pain that I was carrying around. Well, it
doesn't work that way. As long as you hold onto the guilt without seeing what
it's warning you about, you do nothing to heal, and unless you can love
yourself for who you are instead of hating yourself for what you've done, you
will stay locked in a vicious, self-destructive cycle.
	I have heard it said that compassion is the highest virtue. I don't
know about highest virtues or anything, but I do know that it is absolutely
essential for someone trying to deal with guilt. Compassion is a suffering with
someone, something that puts us down at the gut level where they are so that we
know what they're feeling like. It's like empathy, except that empathy doesn't
move us to action; compassion does. Empathy recognizes; compassion compels.
When I'm doing the self-flagellation, there is the judge in my head that
condemns me for what I've done, and punishing me for it. What I have to realize
is that that judge is ME, and I have to learn how to teach myself compassion
and love, so that through that love I can begin to heal myself. It is through
compassion that we forgive, and only through forgiveness and compassion can we
begin to heal the wounds that we have dealt ourselves. 
	The realization that I finally came to was that even though I had done
a very destructive thing that I felt was morally wrong, my life didn't end; I
still had to go on living and making decisions. And if I expect and tolerate
others' mistakes, what makes me so special that I have to be perfect, and
crucify myself if I'm not? Absolutely nothing. Goethe says "Man makes mistakes
so long as he strives." We need to learn to accept ourselves when we make
mistakes, and our ability to learn from mistakes is one of the signs of our
intelligence, and one sign of a healthy individual. When we beat ourselves with
our mistakes we dig ourselves into a hole, but when we treat ourselves with
love and compassion we find that we are not the evil people that we first
thought we were, simply fallible. And through the recognition and healing of
our mistakes we come to a more full knowledge and acceptance of others'
fallibility. 
	I'm going to leave you with a poem that someone gave to me at the
National Honors Conference in Pittsburg. I think it typifies what I'm trying to
explain here, how the only way to expiate guilt and forgive ourselves is to
come at the problem with love and acceptance, and learn to view with compassion
that part of ourselves that we would normally slap down. We don't heal
ourselves, or fix things, by closing out the part of ourself that we're blaming
for the deed; we do it with love and acceptance, with a tenderness of mind that
allows us to make mistakes and grow.

		"He drew a circle to keep me out,
		heretic, rebel, a thing to flout. 
		But Love and I had the wit to win, 
		we drew a circle that took him in."


