From the "Essene Gospel of Peace, Volume Four, the Teachings of the Elect."


THE THREE HOLY STREAMS

Into the innermost circle have you come, into the mystery of
mysteries, that which was old when our father Enoch was young and
walked the earth. Around and around have you come on your journey of
many years, always following the path of righteousness, living
according to the Holy Law and the sacred vows of our Brotherhood, and
you have made of your body a holy temple wherein dwell the angels of
God.

Now you shall know of the three laws of the angels, the mystery of the
three Holy Streams and the ancient way to traverse them; so shall you
bathe in the light of heaven and at last behold the revelation of the
mystery of mysteries: the law of God, which is One.

And when the sun is high in the heavens, then shall you seek the Holy
Stream of the Word. in the heat of noontide, all creatures are still
and seek the shade; the angels of the Earthly Mother are silent for a
space. Then it is that you shall let into your ears the Holy Stream of
the Word; for it can only be heard in the silence. Think on the
streams that are born in the desert after a sudden storm, and the
roaring sound of the waters as they rush past. Truly, this is the
voice of God, if you did but know it. For as it is written, in the
beginning was the Word (i.e. The divine Commandment Be & it Is), and
the Word was with God, and the Word was Divine. I tell you truly, when
we are born, we enter the world with the sound of God in our ears,
even the singing of the vast chorus of the sky, and the holy chant of
the stars in their fixed rounds; it is the Holy Stream of Sound that
traverses the vault of stars and crosses the endless kingdom of the
Heavenly Father. It is ever in our ears, so do we hear it not. Listen
for it, then, in the silence of noontide; bathe in it, and let the
rhythm of the music of God beat in your ears until you are one with
the Holy Stream of the Word. It was this Word which formed the earth
and the world, and brought forth the mountains, and set the stars in
their thrones of glory in the highest heavens.

And the mighty roaring of the Stream of the Word will fill your whole
body, and you will tremble before its might. Then breathe deeply of
the angel of air, and become the sound itself, that the Holy Stream of
the word may carry you to the endless kingdom of the Heavenly Father,
there where the rhythm of the world rises and falls.

And when darkness gently closes the eyes of the angels of the Earthly
Mother, then shall you also sleep, that your spirit may join the
unknown angels of the Heavenly Father. And in the moments before you
sleep, then shall you think of the bright and glorious stars, the
white, shining, far-seen and far-piercing stars. For your thoughts
before sleep are as the bow of the skillful archer, that sends the
arrow where he wills. Let your thoughts before sleep be with the
stars; for the stars are Light, and the Heavenly Father is Light, even
that Light which is a thousand times brighter than the brightness of a
thousand suns. Enter the Holy Stream of Light, that the shackles of
death may loose their hold for ever, and breaking free from the bonds
of earth, ascend the Holy Stream of Light through the blazing radiance
of the stars, into the endless kingdom of the Heavenly Father.

Unfold your wings of light, and in the eye of your thought, soar with
the stars into the farthest reaches of heaven, where untold suns blaze
with light. For at the beginning of the times, the Holy Law said, let
there be Light, and there was Light. And you shall be one with it, and
the power of the Holy Light Stream will fill your whole body, and you
will tremble before its might. Say the word "Light," as you breathe
deeply of the angel of air, and you will become the Light itself; and
the Holy Stream will carry you to the endless kingdom of the Heavenly
Father, there losing itself in the eternal Sea of Light which gives
birth to all creation. And you shall be one with the Holy Stream of
Light, always before you sleep in the arms of the Heavenly Father.

I tell you truly, your body was made not only to breathe, and eat, and
think, but it was also made to enter the Holy Stream of Life. And your
ears were made not only to hear the words of men, the song of birds,
and the music of falling rain, but they were also made to hear the
Holy Stream of Sound. And your eyes were made not only to see the
rising and setting of the sun, the ripple of sheaves of grain, and the
words of the Holy Scrolls, but they were also made to see the Holy
Stream of Light. One day your body will return to the Earthly Mother;
even also your ears and your eyes. But the Holy Stream of Life, the
Holy Stream of Sound, and the Holy Stream of Light, these were never
born, and can never die. Enter the Holy Streams, even that Life, that
Sound, and that Light which gave you birth; that you may reach the
kingdom of the Heavenly Father and become one with him, even as the
river empties into the far-distant sea.

More than this cannot be told, for the Holy Streams will take you to that
place where words are no more, and even the Holy Scrolls cannot record the
mysteries therein.

