Student Statement on Academic Integrity in Honors

Drafted by Laura Berger Gallagher, John Cooney, D'Arcy Mies

      As with other courses at Oakton Community College, violations of
academic integrity in the Honors Program will not be tolerated. These
include: cheating, plagiarism, falsifications and fabrication, abuse
of academic materials, complicity in academic dishonesty,
falsification of records and official documents, personal
misrepresentation and proxy, and bribes, favors, and threats. That
said, we realize that this is just a starting point for what is
expected of the students involved in the Honors Program. Our academic
integrity involves something more than not cheating or falsifying
records.

      The Honors Program attracts students who realize that they get
something beyond a good grade when they invest themselves in their
courses. This investment in the learning process gives students a
sense of ownership and responsibility for their classes So it is
expected that everyone will take an active role in discovering the
meaning and connections of what is being taught in the class. We
expect a safe environment to reveal thoughts and emotions, and a
serious attitude about education. These classes are ours, no less than
they are the teachers', and we expect each other to come to class
prepared and ready to contribute.

      In order to ensure a safe, stimulating, and open environment for
the exchange of serious ideas, we expect everyone to treat each other,
the teachers, and the material with respect. We will hear each other
out - especially when we disagree. We expect everyone to be honest and
fair. This is how we learn actively.

      This active learning requires a willingness to express and test
ideas and a sense that the learning is valuable in itself whether or
not it is utilitarian We value freedom to explore intellectually as
well as academic achievement. We expect to have a wide variety of
experiences so we can develop our intellectual capabilities to the
fullest extent.

      We expect our behavior to be honorable and genuine, we want to
reflect the ideals of the Honors Program - honesty, excellence and
openness. We expect a lot from each other; and we get a lot from each
other. The Honors Program itself grows as we as individuals grow
within it. Every contribution we make adds to a greater whole and can
positively affect other students and teachers. We are creating and
sustaining a warm, challenging environment that is ideally suited to
curiosity and gaining new insights about ourselves, the world, and our
connections to it.


