               The Care and Feeding of Peer Mentors
                         --Connie K. Hood

      How can you get honors students to volunteer to help other students
in classes and when new students enter the honors program?  How much time
can you expect them to give?  What kind of training do you give them?  What
can you expect them to do?  What rewards do they get?  Does peer mentoring
really help anhonors program?

      In this article I have addressed some of the many questions posed on
the NCHC list serve about peer mentoring by sketching the complex model we
use at Tennessee Tech.  Elements from this model can easily be adapted to
almost any honors program.  At the national conference we will hold a panel
discussion on training peer mentors and invite brainstorming and
contributions from the
audience -- so bring your ideas!

      At Tennessee Tech we use three levels of peer mentors, who volunteer
a great deal of time, energy, and enthusiasm to help us in a wide variety
of ways.  Each Honors 101 class has four peer mentors, Honors classes in
the disciplines may have up to four, and we breed a very special kind of
peer mentor in our big sibling (avoiding sexist language here!) training
program to be big brothers and sisters to all the incoming Honors students
each fall.  Usually the peer mentors for the classes come from the big
sibling pool of volunteers.

             I.  Choosing and Rewarding Peer Mentors

      The miracle for us all is that our very active peer mentoring
programs cost the university nothing except three weekends of time
volunteered by the directors and a warm thank-you  letter signed by the
directors, the associate vice president for academic affairs, and the
president.  The students receive no
money, grades, or extra credit.  But they graduate knowing very clearly
that they have given important services to the administration (with
registrations and orientations), the faculty (as peer mentors in their
classes), the parents and incoming students (who thank them profusely at
honors orientation), and the honors program, which is strengthened by their
work and their training.  These generous-hearted students receive all sorts
of life training skills as well, building self-confidence, self-esteem,
leadership, and deepening friendships.

     Each year the chair of the big sib committee sends out an e-mail
announcement to all 300 to 500 students, asking for volunteers.  This
strategy usually gathers in about thirty gung-ho go-getters.  We encourage
these to go find one more volunteer each through personal contact, which
brings in another thirty to forty.  Each year we struggle with the issue of
whether to use all the students who volunteer or to have a committee pick
the "best" of the volunteers.  What should we do about the monosyllabic
extreme introvert, who can't look anyone in the eye?  Or the belligerent
extrovert who wants to argue with everyone?  What about the hypersensitive
one, who seems to get hurt feelings
from anything said? Each year, arguing that every single person is
valuable, we take courage and try to find a place for everyone, hoping that
our training programs and a good deal of individual attention will lead
slowly to more social awareness and sensitivity in those students who need
it.  Sometimes that works and sometimes it doesn't.  But we consciously
work to find the gifts and talents of each person in the group, no matter
what, and to make each person feel valued by the group.  This may sound
gooey -- but it works!

     Each big sib fills out a questionnaire that asks about major, hobbies
and interests, favorite books and music, and so on.  All the incoming
honors students fill out a similar little sib form (with no social security
number, grades, or SAT scores, to avoid privacy issues).  Little sibs may
rank which elements are most important to them in being matched to a big
sib.  The big sib committee matches students, trying for maximum
compatibility.  In our first year, we had twenty or so big sibs -- and a
hundred and sixty incoming students.  The ratio was hopelessly unbalanced.
The next year, the big sib volunteers
actively recruited more sibs to swell their ranks, and we added a slot on
the forms to ask each big sib how many little sibs she wanted.  Most choose
two, though some overachievers ask for six or eight.

                II. What Is Required of a Big sib?


     Students who volunteer to be big siblings must agree to undertake
seven sets of tasks:

1.  Attending two weekend retreats is paramount.  We hold two retreats in
the spring, one for new people (mostly rising sophomores) who have never
been Big sibs before, and one for people who have already served as Big
sibs for at least one year.  We hold the veteran retreat first and ask for
volunteers from among that group to be team leaders for the newbie group.
Then both groups merge for a retreat just before school starts in the fall.
 This spring about twenty-five veterans and thirty-five newbies volunteered
to be Big sibs for the 150 to 180 incoming students.

      Graduating seniors can't be big sibs for the next fall, but they
volunteer to lead and participate in the spring retreats anyway.  They
don't want to miss the fun!

      Each year the retreats have been slightly different, based on
feedback from articulate students during and after the retreats.  An
extremely important part of each retreat -- led by students rather than by
the honors directors -- has been a brainstorming session on how to improve
both the Honors program and the Big sibs program.  Students can air their
complaints, hear why things are done the way they are, and -- most
important -- feel heard by directors, steering committee, and Honors
Council members.  The complaint sessions also seem to lead to better
bonding within the groups.

      The Big sib chairs and their committees plan the retreat activities,
which focus on team building, etiquette (how to make proper introductions,
writing thank-you notes), leadership skills, role-playing problems of new
students, being Real, listening empathically, and a variety of other life-
training skills.  Counseling Center and Housing staffs talk about
depression and suicide, decision-making processes, and codependency issues.
 This year, veterans asked for a unit on conflict resolution in
relationships, and we persuaded a psychologist in town to come spend
Saturday afternoon discussing that topic with them.

     **Dr. Linda Lerner, Dr. Mary Pashley, and I will talk at the national
conference about some of our role-playing scenarios from these retreats.

     With all the constraints of studies and others activities of students,
we found Friday to Sunday was too long for one retreat for many students.
So this year's retreats began on a Friday at 6, after supper, and ran until
10 or 11 p.m., and ran Saturday from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. with breaks for
lunch and supper.  The three-dollar refreshment contribution pays for juice
and Danish for Saturday morning, soft drinks and munchies for the rest of
the time.

     While we dream of being able to hold the retreats off campus, we can't
afford that.  Before last year we simply reserved for two or three days a
large room with stacking chairs and tables in the university student
center; last year we were given a beautiful new Honors Center that includes
three offices and a very large, carpeted seminar room with moveable tables
and chairs at one end, sofas and computers at the other.  The Center is on
the second floor in a classroom building, with restrooms on the floor.  So
now we put refreshment tables in the hall, have large-group meetings in the
seminar room, and break into empty classrooms for small discussion groups.
On weekends we are not
competing for classroom space.

2.  Buy t-shirts created just for Big sibs.  The only money that changes
hands in all the Big sib work is the ten dollars which the students decided
to assess themselves for T-shirts and refreshments (three dollars).  A
student committee designs the shirts, with cartoons and Honors logo.  While
a few students can't afford to buy shirts at all, and a few buy only one,
most students eagerly buy the new one each year.  During playtime at the
retreats, students are encouraged to paint, decorate, and autograph one
another's shirts.  The shirts help designate the Honors students who are
helping at registration, at Honors orientation, and during moving-in dday
when they meet the parent and help their Little sibs move in.

3.   Write letters/phone their assigned little sibs during the summer
before the summer registration for Honors freshmen.  During their spring
retreats, Big sibs practice writing letters to Little sibs; they share and
critique one another's letters.  In spite of the practice drill, usually at
least a third of the Big sibs will procrastinate and not write letters by
the deadline, which is a week before the summer registration.  Capitulating
to the forces of entropy, we ask those who do not write letters to
telephone their Little sibs and chat with them
and answer questions.  Almost all of the procrastinators do telephone,
especially with guilt trips from their peers if they don't.

     4.  Be present for Honors Registration Day.  This event is a two-day
orientation: a picnic supper on Thursday night, orientation talk in an
auditorium for students and parents, and a reception in the Honors Center;
and another orientation on Friday for parents who missed Thursday night,
the advising and registering of nearly two hundred students, and a final
picnic
blowout for Big sibs.  One of the most marvelous things about
this weekend is that Big sibs come back from as far away as Virginia,
Texas, and Michigan to be here to help; many of them give up two days of
summer work (and the corresponding salary) to be there.  Students living in
apartments and the honors director offer floors to sleep on for the
weekend, and most stay the
entire weekend to visit and play.

      Since we have only two part-time honors directors, we cannot possibly
advise all the incoming students individually.  The Big sibs are invaluable
at helping set up schedules, answering questions about advanced-placeement
credit, etc., as well a practical housing questions.  At the orientation
talks, we
introduce each Big sib and have each give home town and major; then at the
reception parents and incoming students can buttonhole specific students
with questions.  Most parents want reassurances; many of our students are
first-generation college students, and the registration process as well as
the masses of people can be overwhelming to them.  Seeing what real Honors
students look like and talking with them allay many parents' fears.

     The first years of the Big sib program, I hosted a cookout at my house
to thank the exhausted Big sibs at the end of Honors Registration Day.  Now
with sixty or so enthusiastic bodies, the Honors student organization and I
split the cost of the food, and this year we cooked at a city park while
they played basketball and frisbee and listened to music.

 5.  Help their Little sibs move into the dorms, meet parents, show them
campus, find answers to any questions they can't answer.  In years in which
each Big sib had four to eight Little sibs, this level of multitasking was
particularly challenging.  With only one to two new students, Big sibs find
this part of the program manageable.

 6.  Be present for Honors orientation when school starts in the fall.  We
hold a three-hour orientation in which we introduce all the Big sibs and
let them talk about all the committees, newsletters, and other Honors
activities available to new students.  Each student has time to talk into
the microphone.
They all have lunch together in the school cafeteria; then the Big sibs
walk their charges to the building in which we hold mass Myers-Briggs Type
Inventory and Tennessee Self-Concept  testing.  (Many Big sibs choose to
take the Myers-Briggs again!)

7.  Escort Little sibs to some of the opening Honors activities, and get in
touch with them at least once a week through e-mail, phone, or getting
together.  After several weeks, these obligations attenuate as new students
develop friendships with a variety of people and learn the rituals of the
university.  Thus, being a big sib is mostly time-consuming at the
beginning of the school year, before tests and exams threaten students'
time.

               III. Peer Mentors for Honors 101


      We ask two to four older Honors students, who are almost always
experienced big siblings who have been through several training retreats,
to volunteer to be peer mentors for each of our eight to ten sections of
Honors 101.  These introductory classes, which serve as orientation to
Honors, meet for two hours, usually in the evening, once a week for eight
weeks.  The classes emphasize group bonding and getting to know some people
in Honors as well as learning the rules and the rather daunting net of
activities and co-curricular programs available through Honors.  Honors 101
students discuss values clarification exercises; learn and apply Myers-
Briggs, Perry, Fowler, and Kohlberg models; work through critical thinking
exercises; discuss study skills; write a position paper about their values;
and analyze selections from CONSTRUCTING A LIFE PHILOSOPHY, ed. Bender (we
highly recommend the Greenhaven Press Opposing Viewpoints series as an
introductory text series for Honors
programs).

      The peer mentors for Honors 101 attend all the classes, learn the
names of all the students, troubleshoot all sorts of questions, and
correspond with the new students through e-mail.  Our Honors program co-
curricular activities are so complicated that we do not expect the Honors
professors who teach 101 to
answer questions about the two-hundred-page HONORS HANDBOOK and the Honors
program -- but the big sibs/peer mentors can.  And if they don't know the
answers, they know where to go to get them.

      In most of the Honors 101 classes, the peer mentors divide up the
class into subgroups, and each peer mentor then has four to six individual
students to track by speaking to them before or after class, sending
friendly e-mail, helping them get on honors committees or involved in
intramurals, and so on.  If the peer mentors see students getting into
academic problems or needing help with something, they are glad to help.
They can check rolls, lead small-group discussions, teach class if the
teacher must be absent, offer advice about term papers, help newbies learn
how to use e-mail and find Web sites, and listen
empathetically to whatever others want to discuss.  They are particularly
effective talking with their peers in values clarification exercises: they
have much to say about teen pregnancies, illegal drugs, cutting classes,
where blame or responsibility resides, and learning tolerance for
individual differences.

                IV. Peer Mentors for Honors Courses in Disciplines


      With the budget demands requiring larger class sizes, we began to use
peer mentors last year in the hope that they could function a little like
graduate lab assistants in science courses.  We used my Honors British
survey literature class last fall as an experiment.  Three students who had
taken the course
the previous year volunteered to sit through it again as mentors.

      Like the peer mentors in Honors 101, the peer mentors for Honors
English were expected to attend all the classes, get into dialogue with
individual students after class and through e-mail, and troubleshoot.  In
addition, one peer mentor ran an electronic bulletin board for the class so
that they could have an informal forum for discussion of issues raised in
class; even though
students received no grades or credit for contributing to the bulletin
board, the class generated discussion that printed out at more than eight
hundred pages of single-spaced ten-point type at the end of the term.  The
peer mentors were invaluable at raising questions on the bulletin board.
In addition, each of
them asked (begged!) to give a class presentation on a particular author
that mattered to them, and two of them volunteered to lead the three-day
sleeping-bag seminar on T. S. Eliot's FOUR QUARTETS which I usually lead.

     When I had to be absent from class unexpectedly, my peer mentors were
delighted to lead the class.  When I wanted to break the twenty-four
students into smaller groups for more analytical discussion, I could break
them into four groups, with a peer mentor or me leading each group.

     My biggest problem right now is that twelve students are entreating me
to let them be among the four peer mentors for the class this fall.  All of
them especially enjoyed the dialogue and interaction in their class.  Two
of the  students listed as their reason for applying for this job that they
didn't feel that they got everything out of the course they wanted to last
year, and they hoped to work through the material at a deeper level – and
all of them were begging to be part of the Eliot sleeping-bag seminar.  How
often do you find students actively seeking to be in your class a second
time?

    V.  What Are the Consequences if They Don't Do Their Job?

      One of the most frequently asked questions from other directors is:
what can we do to ensure that each student performs all these tasks?  Peer
pressure helps, as does friendly prodding by the director.  The big sibling
program is only as strong as its weakest links -- if you are the incoming
student whose big sib never wrote or phoned.  At the retreats we ask new
big sibs to talk about their good and bad experiences with their own big
sibs when they first entered the university.  There are always one or two
who can dramatize how awful they felt when no one contacted them.

     At the end of the semester, each student in Honors 101 evaluates the
class, teacher, and peer mentors.  Each little sib evaluates his big sib,
and the form is read by the directors and the big sib committee before it
is filed in the big sib's honors portfolio, along with those letters of
thanks from the directors
and the president.

     Honors students' portfolios are open to the awards committee, which
chooses annually an outstanding big sibling as well as five other
categories of awards.  And the directors consult the portfolios when
writing letters of recommendation.

     The most important way of ensuring that students do their jobs is to
talk with them -- ask them what they are doing and not doing.
Surprisingly, some students who failed to write their little sibs one year
will volunteer to come to the retreats the next year; usually they ask to
be allowed to help out but not to be assigned little sibs.  The big sib
chair, in worst cases, can show a delinquent big sib his evaluations and
ask if he plans to mend his ways.

                 V. In Summary . . .


     Thus, the fun of the retreats and the knowledge that they are helping
others and being appreciated for it seem to be the primary motivating
forces in attracting and retaining peer mentors.  Their eager and
enthusiastic involvement helps to create an environment that is both
challenging and nurturing, and it is an environment that can perpetuate
itself in each new generation of peer mentors.




