                  The Fourteen Precepts

1
Do not be idolatrous or bound to any doctrine, theory or 
ideology, even Buddhist ones. Buddhist systems of thought
are guiding means; they are not absolute truths.

2
Do not think the knowledge you presently possess is changeless,
absolute truth. Avoid being narrow-minded and bound to present 
views. Learn and practice nonattachment from views in order to 
be open to receive others' viewpoints. Truth is found in life 
and not merely in conceptual knowledge. Be ready to learn 
throughout your entire life and to observe reality in yourself 
and in the world at all times.

3
Do not force others, including children, by any means whatso-
ever, to adopt your views, whether by authority, threat, money,
propaganda, or even education. However, through compassionate 
dialogue, help others renounce fanaticism and narrowness.

4
Do not avoid contact with suffering or close your eyes before
suffering. Do not lose awareness of the existence of suffering 
in the life of the world. Find ways to be with those who are 
suffering, including personal contact, visits, images, and 
sounds. By such means, awaken yourself and others to the 
reality of suffering in the world.

5
Do not accumulate wealth while millions are hungry. Do not 
take as the aim of your life fame, profit, wealth, or sensual 
pleasure. Live simply and share time, energy, and material 
resources with those who are in need.

6
Do not maintain anger or hatred. Learn to penetrate and 
transform them when they are still seeds in your consciousness. 
As soon as they arise, turn your attention to your breath in 
order to see and understand the nature of your anger and hatred
and the nature of the persons who have caused your anger and 
hatred.

7
Do not lose yourself in dispersion and in your surroundings.
Practice mindful breathing to come back to what is happening
in the present moment. Be in touch with what is wondrous,
refreshing, and healing both inside and around you. Plant 
seeds of joy, peace, and understanding in yourself in order
to facilitate the work of transformation in the depths of your
consciousness.

8
Do not utter words that can create discord and cause the 
community to break. Make every effort to reconcile and 
resolve all conflicts, however small.

9
Do not say untruthful things for the sake of personal interest
or to impress people. Do not utter words that cause division 
and hatred. Do not spread news that you do not know to be
certain. Do not criticize or condemn things of which you are
not sure. Always speak truthfully and constructively. Have the
courage to speak out about situations of injustice, even when
doing so may threaten your own safety.

10
Do not use the Buddhist community for personal gain or profit,
or transform your community into a political party. A religious
community, however, should take a clear stand against oppres-
sion and injustice and should strive to change the situation
without engaging in partisan conflicts.

11
Do not live with a vocation that is harmful to humans and nature. 
Do not invest in companies that deprive others of their chance 
to live. Select a vocation that helps realize your ideal of 
compassion.

12
Do not kill. Do not let others kill. Find whatever means possible
to protect life and prevent war.

13
Possess nothing that should belong to others. Respect the 
property of others, but prevent others from profiting from 
human suffering or the suffering of other species on Earth.

14
Do not mistreat your body. Learn to handle it with respect. Do 
not look on your body as only an instrument. Preserve vital 
energies (sexual, breath, spirit) for the realization of the Way.
(For brothers and sisters who are not monks and nuns:) Sexual
expression should not take place without love and a longterm 
commitment. In sexual relationships, be aware of future 
suffering that may be caused. To preserve the happiness of others,
respect the rights and commitments of others. Be fully aware of 
the responsibility of bringing new lives into the world.
Meditate on the world into which you are bringing new beings.


--Thich Nhat Hanh, INTERBEING. Berkeley: Parallax Press, 1987.



