From gte410r@prism.gatech.edu Wed Jun 14 13:03:16 2000
Date: Sun, 11 Jun 2000 23:38:37 -0400
From: "Lewis Baumstark, Jr." <gte410r@prism.gatech.edu>
To: mentor@CS.UTK.EDU, honstudy@tntech.edu
Subject: MHB - a brief history of (lew's) god (long)

every time sunday rolls around lately, i say i need to write down my
"spiritual history". i actually have a few minutes while my clothes are
drying, so i guess i have no excuses. :)

hrmm...those of you who know me know my dad is a southern baptist (tm)
music minister, so everything begins in the baptist church. i don't
remember thinking much about religion/spirituality until about mid-way
through high school. because of dad's work, church was really just an
extension of home life. it was very hard to distinguish the two.
theoretically, most of my religious training would derive from my
parents, but i'm beginning to wonder if that's really true. i don't
remember ever discussing religion/spirituality with them as a
child/adolescent. (i should interject that my parents are religious
moderates; my dad, in particular, is a pretty bitter
anti-fundamentalist. unfortunately, the cynicism is something i *did*
learn from him). basically, i was at the mercy of sunday school
teachers, bible study leaders, youth ministers, etc. some were
positive, some weren't so positive. in general, though, things were
pretty much black & white for me, and that was ok until the time came
for it to not be ok anymore. :)

there were a couple of youth ministers, in particular, who were
important at the crux time (high school). the first, fortunately,
wasn't as convinced about black & white as other people i'd run
across. he was the first to teach me about the doctrine of the laity,
also known as the priesthood of the believer, which, i think, was one
of the basic tenets Luther nailed on the Wittenburg door. basically,
that humans could approach god directly, without needing the
assistance of a priest/preacher/minister/etc. despite this
(supposedly) being a cornerstone of our faith, it was like a blast of
lightning from heaven. here's the answer! maybe not that far-out, but
it *did* get me thinking. in particular, it led into personal biblical
interpretation, as opposed to literal interpretation. one of the
things he kept saying about the bible was "what did it mean then [ie,
biblical times], and what does it mean now?" what a concept--the
meaning could change to fit the situation! can we say "relativism"
boys and girls? (at least a very early ping into it for me.)

on the other hand, a year or two later, i dealt with a youth minister
who all but dared us (in a bible study) to say we didn't believe in
creation. he and the creationists were pretty much beating up on the
one or two non-creationists in the group, and i'm somewhat on the
sidelines, watching, and keeping my mouth shut. finally, i'd had all i
could take and asked "what does it matter? how does this affect our
faith?" i'm not sure where my thoughts on creation were then; most
likely i saw it as a myth/explanatory/archetypal thing, as i pretty
much still do. but that wasn't the issue for me then. i wanted to know
why we were wasting our time arguing about it. i didn't really know
what faith was all about, but one thing i did know is that creation
didn't really figure into it as any kind of cornerstone. Any faith I
had then more or less centered around the direct teachings of Christ
(pretty much the Gospels); the rest of the Bible I pretty much
ignored.

it was during this time i completed my metamorphasis into an INFP. :)
i developed some very intimate relationships in high school, the first
time i had any inkling about what intimacy was. so maybe it was an
endorphine thing, but the whole "God is Love" thing just exploded for
me around the end of high school and carried on into college. i don't
know if i learned a lot *from* it, but i did learn a lot *because* of
it. it's extremely hard to see a non-christian as damned when all you
can see is their light and beauty. it was a very tough dualism to
break, if you've never had to do it yourself. There was this line from
Les Miserables (the musical) I kept going back to: "To love another
person is to see the face of God."

So I get to college, and immediately start in on the Baptist Student
Union (aka BSU), because hey, that's what all good little Southern
Baptist choirboys do when they go to college. And promptly quit going.
Meetings were large and unpersonal, tending toward outward displays of
spirituality (ever hear of "charismatic" Christianity? Well, that's
what this was.) Didn't suit my inward searching too well.
Unfortunately, I didn't have an outlet for the interior search to fall
into. So I stumbled around for a couple years.

It was while on co-op that I started working with the idea of
religions other than Christianity having validity. It actually started
within Christianity, with me trying to figure out why all those crazy
Catholics were going to hell. :) I decided that God wasn't so much
concerned with *what* you believed, as long as you were faithful to
it. Faith, and not doctrine/theology/dogma was what mattered. Which
meant Methodists, Church of Christ-ians, Lutherans, Catholics, etc
suddenly weren't going to hell. This quickly extended to other
non-Christian religions. (As it turns out, this was the beginning of a
long ponderance on "what is faith?" that, like the Energizer Bunny,
keeps going and going...)

Even though I quickly dropped out, mostly due to a killer post-co-op
TTU semester, Connie's Mysticism class played a major part at this
time. I had a chance to do a little study (and unfortunately, only a
little in my case) into these other religions I had decided weren't so
bad. This would also be the time I started Mentor in earnest (or at
least, this is when Connie decided to tell me she'd been mentoring me
all along... :) So I had all these new, cool books to read on
mysticism, Buddhism, Hinduism, you-name-it-ism. (And I actually *did*
read a few, by the way :) Largely they were affirmations to me of what
I had already decided. God was everywhere, just we tended to look at
her differently (and one of those wonderful differences was the idea
of God encompassing a female aspect, as well as the male, hence the
"her".) The god I grew up with was simply too small; in fact, I was
angry that people were arrogant enough to claim God only exists this
way (ie, literal biblical interpretation, etc.) Who were they to
contain God?

One book in particular became extremely important, Stephen Mitchell's
The Gospel According to Jesus. (Yeah, yeah, I know SM's opinion of
himself can be a bit high, but it worked for me at the time. Humor me
the reference.) What happened was this: in the introduction, he tells
the reader that, to truly grok the interpretation of the Gospels he
offers, we must put aside notions like the virgin birth, the
resurrection, etc. Ack!!! This was truly difficult. But somehow I
managed to do it, and, to be honest, I never really picked them back
up. And apparently that was the lesson to be learned, as the rest of
the book was fairly uninspiring. :) These days, the Resurrection is
important to me in the cyclic metaphors -- Life, Death, Rebirth. Just
so you know I haven't dropped it completely. I just use it
differently, that's all; whether it really happened or not doesn't
matter. Still thinking of books, how did i view the Bible at this
point? The Word of God cannot be contained in a book, I decided. It's
too dynamic for lifeless paper. Instead it exists inside.

Fast forward a few months and we have the first time I watched The
Last Temptation of Christ. <Yoda voice on> Totally blown away was I.
<Yoda voice off.> Truly amazing. Never before had Jesus been presented
to me as a human being, with fears, doubts (including doubts about his
divinity), and sexual frustrations. In time, I came to realize that
"cleansing of sins" wasn't really why God became human. God became
human to complete God. God became human to know us, and to give us a
way to know God. And to recognize our own divinity. This remains
tremendously important to me. It keeps God from being distant and
seperate, reinforcing that there really isn't a barrier.

Around this time I did something else truly heretical for a good
little Southern Baptist boy: I started attending Mass. I had been
going to this nice little church just past Connie's house, and it'd
been all right. I like the pastor and several of the other church
leaders, but I just never really felt I belonged there. I also
realized all my friends were going to Mass, and decided that God was
with those I loved, so that's where I needed to be. Very much a new
experience -- I discovered I hadn't really known what reverence was
until I was part of a liturgical service. It was an active service
(which, ironically, I had run from in other situations), but at the
same time, it allowed inner work. It had structure (which I had also
run from, ie, literal biblical interpretation), but the structure was
an anchor point, not a cage. "Lord, I am not ready to receive You, but
only say the word, and I shall be healed." Nothing more needs to be
said about this.

So for about a year or so there, I cruised along, drinking in Light
and Beauty. Perfect setup for a crash, yes?. And that's exactly what
happened. Things just got dark all of a sudden. God still existed, but
was again distant, not active in my world. And I simply didn't care.
Basically, we weren't on speaking terms, as I saw it. And i just kind
of sunk through this funk for a while. When I came to and looked
around, I was in this deep, dark pit, sitting on the bottom. The walls
and floor were smooth, black stone, no way to climb out. I wanted out,
wanted to get back to this wonderful spiritual existence I'd known,
except I just wasn't motivated to do anything about it. To complicate
matters more, meta-cognition said I couldn't get out until i didn't
*want* to be out. Of course, I couldn't decide I didn't want to be
out, because that really meant I *did* want to be out, and that'd be
cheating. (Yes, meta-cognition can truly be a pain in the rear.) So I
just sat there, probably for the better part of a year, kind of in a
"woe-is-me" attitude.

This more or less brings me to the present. Don't know how, or if, I
got out. Spirituality is certainly more important to me now. I attend
a very cool, very liberated church (with a liturgical service!) here
in Atlanta, with a "Sunday School" class composed mostly of
seminarians who at one point or another were just as jaded about
fundamentalism as I used to be. They're a lot of fun. :) And it's a
fairly safe place to work on the interior spiritual stuff. I still
think a lot about faith, what it is, how it works, can I fix it or at
least build a new one. We have a "centering moment" in Sunday School,
where someone brings a piece of wisdom, poem, etc, each week. I read
Rumi's Chickpea and Cook poem for them today (impressing the hell out
of them -- that an engineer has studied some mysticism! :) As I was
meditating on it this morning, though, I realized that faith isn't
just the giving in and embracing everything that comes, good and bad
(which I'd been working with for some time), the loss of independence.
It's also about interdepence among me, God, and the world, instead of
having complete blind devotion on one end, and complete independence
on the other. Which also brings up the nicely heretical idea of God
being interdependent instead of the all-powerful sovereign. :)

And since today is about as up-to-date as I can be, I'll leave you
with that. Thank you so very much for reading.


