From will at himinbi.org  Sun Aug  1 19:58:18 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Wed Aug  4 11:00:33 2004
Subject: [rim] Red in Tooth and Claw
Message-ID: <20040802005818.GA2792@trogdor.mr>

One of the perks of being a Peace Corps Volunteer is that during the
course of our service we are covered by health insurance.

This is critical since I have both suffered from and seen a panoply of
diseases the likes of which I'd only heard of in the States. Malaria,
tuberculosis, boils, eczema, worms, giardia... You name it and I can
probably point you to a volunteer who's suffered from it. That goes
double if said affliction causes violent and uncontrollable diarrhea.
I don't know about the rest of the world, but if you meet a PCV from
Africa who says they've never shit their pants, more than likely
they're lying to you.

Our medical also covers dental and we have two check-ups during the
course of our two years: one right before we leave and one at the
halfway point. My group has been in Peace Corps for 404 days which
puts us at almost exactly 50% of our two years. I, therefore, had my
dental check-up a couple days ago.

The dentist that Peace Corps uses is a congenial Palestinian fellow,
Dr. Baha el Din. I've been to him a couple of times in the last week
and found his manner professional, but a bit unusual at times.

For instance, in our initial exam, he poked around in my mouth for a
couple of minutes with his little mirror on a stick and pronounced me
cavity free. My dentist in the States (who I've been going to since I
was 5, so he is my only reference point) always has a big ol' time
cramming his little pick into every nook and cranny in my mouth before
making his pronouncement. It leaves me wondering, did this new guy
skimp on the work or is my old dentist a closet masochist?

Not that I mind missing out on some drilling. It is just that I know
how atrocious my dental hygiene is. My nightly routine starts off with
the thought, "ok, I need to brush my teeth and meditate before I lay
down." This is followed shortly by the thought, "I'll just read for a
couple minutes first." (Chez moi has no chairs or tables, only a mat
on the floor, so doing anything involves lying down.) As one might
guess, the next thought is, "huh? wha? why are those damned roosters
crowing?" Followed by a little shuffling around and "shit, it's 4am...
note to self: kill that stupid effing rooster tomorrow."

There really is no excuse for it. It happens every other night so I
can't really plead ignorance. Some people are good at the doing of the
things that one knows one ought to do. Exercising, studying French,
flossing, programming, helping Mauritania, meditating... The list of
things that an ideal version of myself would do on a regular basis
just goes on and on. Some of them, like contentious dental care, are
going to bite me harder than others.

Thus, to be told that I am cavity free leaves me reconsidering the
existence of free lunches. He seemed convinced though, so I reckon
I'll trust him. He did though find my cracked fillings and so I did
not avoid the drill entirely.

Meat here is often processed with ruder implements than in the States
(read axes) and I discovered on of the chips of bone that frequent the
couscous rather forcefully, thus the cracked filling.

I went in a couple days ago to have one filling fixed and the second
was taken care of this morning. The most unusual bit for me was the
lack of anesthetic (shades of Marathon Man). He started out with,
"when it hurts just raise your hand and I'll stop immediately." I was
kinda curious what it'd feel like.

Turns out, it hurts like a son of a bitch.

It wasn't the pain, even though it did hurt. It was the randomness.
He'd be drilling around and other than the vibration of the drill I
didn't feel anything at all. Then he'd hit a nerve and pain would go
shooting through my jaw. After the first shock I could deal with it,
but it was really hard to not wince at the sharpness each time.

An idea that is occasionally discussed is that experience is an
active process. Stuff happens, our senses perceive and then our brain
processes. Some people say that you can sort of get in there right at
the beginning of the processing phase and exercise some control over
how you deal with it. Some of those people set themselves on fire in
protest of the Vietnam war and sat calmly as their flesh melted off
their bones, so I am inclined to believe them.

I was lying there trying to get to the beginning of the pain and just
let it flow by. It was interesting, but unfortunately he finished
drilling before I achieved enlightenment. Oh well, I know I'll be
back.

Love,
Will
