From will at himinbi.org  Mon Nov 15 04:22:06 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Mon Nov 15 09:04:01 2004
Subject: [rim] Id-al-Fitr
Message-ID: <20365.209.88.121.137.1100514126.squirrel@honors.tntech.edu>

Today was the beginning of the holiday marking the end of Ramadan. At least
it was here in Mauritania. The Islamic calendar is lunar and days begin at
sundown. A new month begins with the appearance of the new moon and though
theoretically science can tell us when the new moon will appear, it has to
actually be seen to count.

One person isn't entrusted with the hefty task of seeing the moon. It would
be unfortunate to have a cloudy week in his town and the country would just
have to keep fasting. Instead there is a national agency which declares
holidays. Across the country there are trustworthy religious men who all
call in and somehow a consensus is reached.

The celebration is pretty much like most other Mauritanian holidays:
visiting and eating meat. The one difference is that you are supposed to
wear new clothes as well as buying a bunch of meat. One upshot of this is
that the days right before the fete sport the highest crime rates of the
year. About three days ago we had were having a dinner. The apartment is on
the second floor inside a wall with a door. From the road you can see the
door. Apparently it was left ajar and someone had the cajones to come in the
outside door, up the stairs and loot the first room while a dozen of us were
sitting in the second. You take off your sandals before entering an
apartment, so the guy had to know how many people were there based on the
huge pile of shoes he had to step over.

I have been making some headway on my New Years resolution to make at least
a couple of Mauritanian friends. I got an invite from my French teacher,
Diagina, and headed out to his house today about noon. It turns out that I
was late. Diagina had been trying to call me, but you call everyone that you
can?t go see and so the phone network was completely saturated all day.

A lot of the time when you have meat it is with rice or occasionally pasta.
The normal dish for today is mishoui, which is meat with more meat. It isn?t
bad really. The meat is cooked until it is relatively tender. We are dealing
with a goat though which, unlike a cow, doesn?t have especially big muscles.
So, there are lots of ligaments and whatnot in the plate.

All the men eat together around a communal bowl. Since I was late they had
already eaten most everything. They had set some aside for Diagina and I and
when we sat down, they added it into the bowl. It is a exercise in
creativity eating something like a hunk of meat using only your right hand.
You can?t just stick it in your mouth and tear parts off, so instead you
rely on those around you to grab pieces with you and help you tear them
apart.

To be a good guest I brought along a present. A traditional present is tea
and sugar since that is consumed in such large quantities. I, unfortunately,
decided to get creative. Part of our American culture is exploration. We
live going to see new and interesting places. We like trying new
experiences. When I was in the store and saw a display of candies from
Lebanon, I decided that looked interesting and would make a good gift. The
problem is that I?m not in Kansas anymore. Mauritanians value home and
community and stability much more than new experiences. We had some
volunteers who recently made a big batch of chocolate ice cream for their
students. Mauritanians eat chocolate. It is hot as blue blazes here. You?d
think this would produce a people ripe for chocolate ice cream. Not so, they
wouldn?t eat it. The volunteers, reluctantly, had to consume the whole thing
themselves. So the family I was with pulled a couple pieces out and sort of
sniffed at them, took a little bite, declared them too sweet and put them
back in the bag. Not wanting to let good candy go to waste, I worked my
through a good quarter kilo as we were lying around.

The household I was in was Sonike speaking. Some of the older women don?t
speak French at all, so pretty much all of the conversation was in Sonike. I
was cool with it though. They had a tape of Celine Dion singing Christmas
songs in French on in the background and I just stretched out on one of the
mats (the only furniture in the room is mattresses on the floor) and went to
sleep.

After a few hours I walked back home. I was sort of irritated because the
children were particularly beggarly. There were lots of little kids in new
boubous and caftans asking me for money. I was later complaining about it to
Carl and he informed me that it is traditional to give kids money on this
day so they can buy candy and soda. They then run about spreading
sugar-fueled merriment and glee. Oh well, I?ll know not to glare at them
next time.

I gave a batch of the same candies to my landlord. A while back I talked to
his son and he retracted my landlord's offer of letting me live with him. He
said the layout of his new apartment wasn?t really conducive, which sounds
perfectly reasonable to me. When I told my landlord that he was moving in
with a friend because I didn?t want to disturb him, he acted injured. He
said I had to come and look at my friend?s house and at his house and then
choose. I?m not sure if his son just didn?t tell him or if this is some sort
of cultural nicety. I?ve got a good lead on someone who might rent me a room
and I?m going to check up on that today.

He seemed to like the candies and gave me a half a cake like he has for most
of the other holidays. I?m pretty sure though that he hadn?t done much of
anything for the guardian though. The guy lives in the house and sits
outside every night watching the door. I really like him and wish I could do
more for him. I told him that I wanted to give him some cake and he didn?t
want to accept. He acquiesced though when I told him it would make me fat if
I ate it all and then women wouldn?t like me.

I went into my room and ate half of it and then came out with that and half
a chocolate bar someone gave me earlier in the day. He was all hushed when I
was talking to him. I wonder if he thought my landlord would try and take
the cake if he saw him. He seemed happy though and especially pleased with
the chocolate, so I was happy.

All in all, a very nice day.

Love,
Will
