From will at himinbi.org  Sat May 29 16:20:34 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Sat May 29 16:21:37 2004
Subject: [rim] 2004/05/29 - day three hundred fourty a
Message-ID: <20040529212034.GA4603@trogdor.mr>

I'm not quite completely worn out yet which is good since I'll be on a
plane in about twelve hours headed to Casablanca.

Things have been really busy the last couple weeks and I dislike not
having written more. My life is getting interesting and I'd like to
share more of it.

Had a couple big lessons the last couple days.

The most painful was on the national monetary policy. The ouguiya is a
non-convertible currency. This means that unlike the dollar, euro or
yen, the ouguiya is not traded on the open money markets. It is, in
fact, illegal to take ouguiya out of the country. It has to be
possible to convert money, so the ouguiya is pegged to the dollar at a
rate fixed by the central bank. Whatever the dollar trades at versus
other currencies can then be used to convert ouguiya.

The problem with having the central bank decide on the rate rather
than an open market is that the central bank may or may not decide to
respond to the real value of the currency based on trade.

In many situations this would be a problem because say for instance
the bank fixed the rate at 100um = $1. If the buying power was
actually 150um = $1 then before I buy something I'd just convert all
my dollars to ouguiya and have 50% more buying power for free.

This disparity is present in Mauritania. The official rate is 254um =
$1 and the actual rate is about 344um = $1. The problem is addressed
in Mauritania by it being impossible to change money at the official
rate. Anyone can change dollars to ouguiya no problem (since going at
the official rate means losing 90um for every dollar) and in fact it
is required for international businesses to change at the official
rate.

Going the other way though is only possible if you have a check
written in dollars from a company which has to change at the official
rate. And even then it takes special permission.

Why does this pain me? Because I needed to change ouguiya to euro to
make it to Paris to meet my family. The difference between the
official rate and the black market (which is a bit of a misnomer since
it is the only market) is 310um/420um cost me 165 euro ($200) for how
much I was changing. Ouch, huh?

Other painful lesson?

The eurail and the train system in Europe are completely separate
entities. The most important effect of this is that eurail passes are
not sold in train stations, but only at certain special vendors.

The eurail system is also only available to people who are tourists.
It is not possible to have a pass mailed to you in Europe. This
included Morocco. Because of this there are not many vendors in Europe
and the normally fixed price for outside Europe is inflated.

So, as you might have guessed I have no ticket for the train that I am
hoping to catch. Furthermore, they don't sell them in Morocco or in
Algeciras, the Spanish side of the Strait of Gibraltar. The nearest
city is Seville and that is 150km away.

This is completely my fault. I figured that the train system was just
the train system and so I could buy a ticket in Algeciras or
Casablanca. I also had read that the price is fixed and it was only on
searching that I learned it is only fixed outside of Europe.

Given that I've been planning this for a month it really is just
completely my fault. I could have gotten a ticket via the internet if I
had just planned far enough ahead. Oh well, I am expecting the mistake
to cost me quite a bit and it just means I'll either have to eat less
or sleep on the side of the road. =) I'll manage something, I'm sure.

I'm still incredibly excited though. It is almost like a challenge. I
have 400 euro and five days to make it to Paris to meet my family. Can
I do it? =)

Love,
Will
