From will at himinbi.org  Fri Jun 25 18:38:16 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Fri Jun 25 18:38:45 2004
Subject: [rim] Providence
Message-ID: <20040625233816.GA17961@trogdor.mr>

I'm back to home sweet sandy home. No more dirt or deciduous trees for
a while. =)

How I came to be here is something of a story though. This whole trip
was fraught with times that I was saved from my inexperience only
through a series of good breaks fortuitous enough to border on divine
intervention. My departure shows this all too well.

The day begins with me in Tanger. I had a pleasant time the day before
wandering the streets with J?rgen and slept soundly. About 8:00 I sort
of drowsed up and lay about reading a book of adventure stories my
aunt, Sharon, gave to me in Paris. "No problem," I was thinking,
"there is a 9:00 train, but I don't need to catch it since it only
takes five and a half hours to get to the airport station; Casa
Voyageurs."

So I work my way out of bed at a leisurely pace, noting a little
stiffness and pinkness in my left knee. Not especially concerned I
stuff my copious quantities of clothes, medicines and reading
materials back into my bags and get ready to go.

I'm generally a pretty light traveler, but I wasn't home for
Christmas and my family was kind enough to hold it off for me until we
met in Paris. I got pretty much a complete wardrobe, a goodly portion
of a pharmacy and a few sweets. In the interests of saving weight I
disposed of the jellybeans in the first two days. The remaining
non-consumable parts though probably weighed in at about 80-90 pounds.
Thanks to a solid suspension system on the backpack I could carry it
all pretty well at a quick waddle.

Walking is after all the only exercise I get here. It though I get in
spades with it taking about 15 minutes to get to work and about an
hour to get to the Peace Crops bureau.

So I head out of the pension around 9:15. About half an hour later
I've decided I'm not lost and that I'm close to the train station. I
find a cyber cafe and send out a little update to the effect of not
being dead and en route to Nouakchott, inshallah.

I make it to the train station at 10:45 with plenty of time to spare.
I'm a bit sweaty since the temperatures had started to climb to the
90's, but none the worse for wear other than the lingering stiffness
in my knee.

All is looking good. My first bit of worry comes as I examine my
journal. Coming up from Casablanca I notice the trip took six and a
half hours. "Hmm," I think, "my plane leaves at 18:20. They told me to
be there at 17:00. 11 + 6.5 = 17.5. 17:30. Half an hour late. That's
not good. I wonder how strict they are here on boarding?"

Then as the ticket fellow came around to punch my ticket he told me I
had to change trains in about an hour.

"The fellow at the ticket counter told me it took five and a half
hours. Right? Could he have said 'sept' and not 'cinq' maybe? Is it
seven and a half hours and not five and half? I know he didn't say
'six.'" My insecurity about my French combined with my fear of getting
stranded in Casablanca and played in my mind.

Once I was at the stop I saw the next train didn't leave for another
half an hour and though this did nothing to calm me it did leave me
time to go into the station and ask about what time the train arrived
at Casa Voyageurs. Much to my relief the fellow told me we would pull
in at 17:15. Perfect.

Back out at the station, I was munching on a chicken sandwich when
another of the passengers waiting on the platform asked me, "do you
have the time?" "Yeah, it's 3:20, so they train'll be here in about
fifteen minutes," I said taking note of her perfectly accented
American English.

Never able to pass up an opportunity to chat in English I ask her
where she's from and she reveals that she is an ex-Fulbright scholar
en route to New York before heading home to Washington D.C. Samantha
is her name and as I look at her I see how her angular features and
dark hair decidedly give her the look of someone from the Middle East.
She tells me that with her fluent French and passable Arabic she
doesn't have any trouble getting along here.

I mention my worries about and resolution of my scheduling problems
with our arrival in Casa Voyageurs. "But," she questions, "what about
the half hour to get out to the airport?" "The what?" I respond in a
vain attempt at postponing the revelation through incomprehension.
"Casa Voyageurs is not the station at the airport. The airport is
another train that takes half an hour." "Oh," I say still hoping that
perhaps this is some sort of cruel joke on her part.

She seems convinced and it explains a discrepancy in my notes of 30
durham between what I paid to get to Tanger and what I paid to get
back.

I ask her to watch my stuff and jog back into the station to ask about
the train to the airport. Every hour at five after. Trip time takes 33
minutes. I'd arrive at 18:38, to late to even watch my plane
departing.

"I appear to be screwed," I think to myself.

Back out at the platform, Samantha and I talk for a while longer and I
notice that it's 14:40. This is not comforting since the train
theoretically arrived ten minutes ago. We have been sitting on the
platform the whole time and this clearly has not happened.

Another five minutes pass and the sign flashes "train 15 minutes en
retard" as the train pulls up. "Goodie," I bemuse, "if I wasn't
screwed I'm going to be 15 minutes late."

As it turns out we arrived 20 minutes late.

Samantha has thankfully decided to forgo her first class compartment
and rough it with me and about five other people in a second class
compartment. I'm really thankful for it because in addition to being
an entertaining conversationalist she has the clue that I lack. She's
already given me several good possibilities with the best being
throwing myself on the mercy of the Peace Corps in Rabat.

This is something of a gamble since country directors have pretty wide
control and I could get anything from a nice place to stay to a kind
smile and nothing else. I figure I'll just lie down in the street
outside the bureau and they'll have to do something with me since me
getting murdered and beaten on the bureau doorstep would be decidedly
bad press. If there is one thing I think I can count on worldwide from
the Peace Corps it is an avoidance of bad press.

She inquires of one of our fellow passengers where one might find
cheap lodging in Casablanca along the lines of the 40 durham pension I
was at in Tanger. I learn at this point that "louche" means "ladle"
when used as a noun and "seedy/shady" when used as an adjective.

In the process though she explains my plight and it becomes the talk
of the car; everyone has an idea and a suggestion. They are mostly in
Arabic though and so not especially useful to me.

The fellow of whom she inquired initially is of the opinion that I can
buy out all the seats in a "grand taxi" for 200dh and make it to the
airport on time. This was Samantha's original suggestion, but our
being 20 minutes behind schedule caused her to retract it. He is
emphatic though and tells me he will help me when we arrive.

Betting on his certainty I decide to give it a try.

I am betting pretty heavily too. This taxi will cost me 200 of my
remaining 300dh. I could maybe manage to survive until the next flight
on the 300dh, but on 100dh I'm pretty much up the creek.

I bid Samantha and my Moroccan benefactor a quick good-bye and we are
off. It is, of course, 17:35 (5:35pm). We are, of course, in a town of
four million. The traffic is, of course, a horrendous snarl. My driver
keeps the pedal to the metal and I keep my eyes pretty much affixed to
my watch, especially for the last ten minutes of our 35 minute car
ride.

So, 18:10 we arrive. I hit the ground at my best impression of a run
(again, carrying 90lbs.) I arrive at the ticket counter and in my best
help me for the love of God voice I ask about the flight. She starts
to glower at me and then apparently is taken by a bit of pity and
instead picks up the phone with an exasperated look and calls someone.

I'm panting and trying to get my bags ready as she tells me,
al-hamdallah, that I can still get on, but I can't check my bags or
they'll refuse. This seems odd to me since my bags are huge, but she's
for it, so I am too. She gives me a boarding pass and tells me to
hurry.

I take off at a run again and make it to the rotund guardian of the
gates. "You can't take that bag," he declares. "It's too big."
"Please, please, please, I say. My plane is leaving and I have to
catch it." "No," he says, but I think I see a glimmer of hesitation.
"I don't have any money. If I miss this flight I have to sleep in the
airport. I'll carry the bad on my lap. I'll find something to do." He
glowers a bit. "Please, please let me go." I ask on the point of
begging. Had I been female it would have been the perfect time to
start crying, but it was a move I didn't figure I could pull off.

He sort of grumbles and looks aside allowing me to run past and nearly
into a police officer three steps later. "Green card?" he asks. "You
mean for Mauritania?" I respond in a rapidly degenerating melange of
French and English. He looks at me, seems to realize that
communication is next to impossible and waves me on handing me a card
(green) to fill out with my passport information.

I scrawl some stuff on it and jog up to an empty window. I look up
onto the wall and note with a sinking sensation that it is now 18:20
and my plane may well be on its way to my home. I head around the
window and a shocked and authoritative voice tells me to get back
around the window. It sounds serious enough and belongs to a large
enough police officer that I dart back out of instinct as much as
anything.

I'm sort of bouncing around with my suddenly stifled energy calling
through the window that my plane is leaving and I'd really like to go.

Of note, I was under the impression "je vous en prie" was along the
lines of "I beg of you," and I I was sprinkling it in liberally
between my "s'il vous plaits." Turns out it means "thank you" in
general. So they police may well have been ignoring me because I
appeared a sweat soaked gibbering idiot and they were forming plans as
to how to subdue me.

After a could minutes one of them wanders over, glances at my
passport, and stamps it; waving me through. I take off again at my
quick waddle to the gate. I breathe a happy sigh to see a waiting room
full of mulafas and bou-bous.

After I made it through one more metal detector I drop my bags and
stand for a moment in triumph. Most of the room stops to examine and
discern my dysfunction, but I don't care. I am arrived. I don't have
to sleep in the airport. I don't have to go begging at the Peace Corps
office. I get to go home.

The plane takes another 20 minutes to get ready and we leave almost 40
minutes late. I don't care though. I'm going home.

I make it home and fall pretty quickly asleep noting the increasing
pain in my knee. Apparently it was holding off til I finished my trip
to give up the ghost because I awoke this morning with it looking more
a grapefruit than a knee. I can walk, it's just anything that requires
bending that doesn't work so well. I'll head to the bureau Sunday and
get an opinion on it.

It feels good to be home.

Love,
Will
