From: TTU::MTO1716      "MARK T. ORR" 23-APR-1999 18:35:30.96
To:   @MENTORALL,@GRAD
CC:
Subj: j: my world view

99-04-23
World View

So here I am at the end of another semester. Pretty much left with two
options. Study for finals or journal. Well my brain is dead from a
p-chem test today so studying is out. Actually I think I've managed to
position myself to only need to study for one final. So I thought I'd
get some of my thoughts out. I realized the other day I haven't
written about how I see the world working in a really long time so
I'll take that as my topic.

Whatever I say here I subject to change immediately upon typing it. So
why say it at all? Well the topic of why journal is another issue, but
for one, I want get down the things I have consistently held lately. I
guess the best place to start is from my highest value. What ideal,
characteristic, goal, etc. do I hold to be the most important or most
universal. For me its honesty. For my world everything of value is
built on the pursuit of finding and expressing the truth. the
expression being the logical outcome of the pursuit. Guess that means
I'm defining honesty as the expression of the truth. never saw it that
way before. So what is truth? For me now it composes of two different
descriptions, one fairly obvious, the second less so. First truth is
an accurate description of what is most precisely real. Of course that
gets me quickly into the issue of perceiver/perception. I won't go
into that suffice to say that I realize that one cannot unequivocally
state the absolute truth. what that leaves me with then is the effort
to pursue and express the highest degree of truth that I am capable of
now. Rather than alleviate myself of any duty to the truth because of
this uncertainty I am instead obligated to be more vigilant in my
pursuit and actions.

Obligate. I guess that's a good segue into the second half of the
honesty issue for me. Honesty is as much about action and being as it
is about statement.

To live honestly to me is to act according to the nature of universe.
Of course that requires knowing the nature of the universe, or at
least pursing a knowledge of it. I'll address that presently. First
though, why this requirement of a particular mode of action? Isn't
everyone free to do what they want and make their own values and such?
Yes and no. I do fundamentally believe in free will for all
individuals. I can accept that free will may not in fact be a
characteristic of the universe, but as I will never know because I am
not outside of the system I choose to do something that may make a lot
of good liberal free thinkers squeamish. I'm going to make an a priori
statement and say that we all have free will. I've done a lot of
thinking about the issue of free will vs. determinism and the
conclusion I have is that I like the way my universe works with that a
priori decision. I will address the logical dangers of such a decision
later.

So here I am with a universe defined with the following two
characteristics: there exists a reality that can be approximated, and
humans have free will.

My statement that the truth requires a particular form of action is
not a characteristic of my universe yet. It is how I see the truth.
Before I go much further I want to address some of the sources of
error in my modeling.

I am using Kurt Meier as a critic to challenge anything I say. That is
most useful in writing a rigorous statement of my worldview. My data
primarily is drawn from my observations of myself and as such it is
highly skewed. Two obvious sources of skewedness are my preference of
a Buddhist/Taoist world view and the years of developmental work I
have done with Connie. Both of these have shaped both my thinking and
my language. Rather than invalidating my words I believe that knowing
these biases gives me and others a means of interpreting what I am
saying.

Now in my two component universe I have the privilege of introducing
humanity.

For my purposes humanity is very simple. Human's on the whole strive
to be happy. Happy is arbitrary things on many levels, yet in my
system all humans seek it. To date its been a fairly useful
hypothesis. Now for the semi-indefensible portion of this. I believe
that humans experience a higher quality of happiness as they approach
a mode of being that is based on an increasingly accurate model of the
universe. (Meta-comment: it looks like this is partially driven by my
need/desire to know everything. Will have to examine that more) So now
I'm back to the pursuit of truth, i.e. honesty.

I will posit that this pursuit is not about attaining a large data set
of information, but about functionally optimally (which I term
healthy). To function optimally one needs the most accurate model of
reality to interact with. With a poor map one cannot interact well and
as result of this poor interaction suffers from lack of happiness. To
answer my critic, yes there are many people who have a low degree of
correlation with reality and do not desire to increase it yet appear
to have much happiness. My answer to that is that I have found most
people to experience only a mediocre degree of happiness and it is not
lasting, but fleeting. The assumption in that is that one can thus
attain a high level of happiness that is more sustained by pursuing
this truth.

That is one of my fundamental assumptions. The culmination of my
ruminations and assumptions to date is that I hold that people are in
a state of personal evolution toward a higher degree of health and a
more accurate understanding of truth. What I have found in my
empirical evidence is that many people are not aware of this evolution
or actively resist it. My answer to why this is so is that they have
arrested in different developmental states for fear of losing the
happiness they have gained. Others seem to be regressive, I would
describe these as people who have begun or quickly developed widely
inaccurate maps of reality and as such have little guidance on the
process of evolution.

It is not easy or light to say that people are evolving or at least
have the capacity to. I do not mean evolution in the biological sense
but in the sense that they have capacity to improve their
understanding of reality and thus happiness. So how exactly do these
two relate? The data shows (and remember the data is biased as well as
the means of interpretation) that as one's understanding increases
there is less resistance to reality and thus less suffering. Suffering
being the opposite of happiness. For example, borrowed from Eric
Evers. I experience pain. That is part of the human condition.

At its base pain is input. I have at least two ways of interpreting
this input, the first is to reject the input. By rejecting the input I
have put myself at odds with the universe. Being at odds with the
universe causes me to suffer. The second means of interpretation is to
accept that I am experiencing pain. This does not negate the pain, but
it does not break my congruence with the universe. Thus I can accept
the pain and not suffer and lose my state of happiness.

This understanding leads me to the conclusion that there are more and
less beneficial means of functioning and as such a system of valuing
develops. This situation of valuing is how I have chosen to cope with
the fact that there is no external, absolute truth that is knowable.
And yet it also solves the problem of infinitely relative truth as
well. It gives me a means of ordering and choosing. All of this is
built on several assumptions including: reality can be approximated,
people fundamentally desire happiness, people have the capacity to
evolve. So why do I chose these assumptions. My ever so circular
answer is that these assumptions help me to achieve a higher level of
happiness, they can be reconciled to my experience, and most
unscientifically I like my life with these assumptions. Perhaps one
day I will find that they do not hold and I hope that my commitment to
honesty will hold such that I can alter my world view as such.

In all of this formulation, which has taken the last 22 years,
actively the last 2 or 3, I don't believe I have adequately describe
the characteristics of my world. Without discussing the derivation
here are some characteristics.
1.  honesty leads to increased happiness
2.  honesty results from objective observation. Observation that is not
self-centered or other centered, but weighs self and other together.
3.  there exists correct and incorrect choices about how to function in the
universe and these may be measured after the fact based upon harmony with
reality and lasting of higher quality happiness (undefined)
4.  people are in the process of evolution
5.  there is no need for an external willful being to describe the
universe. Such a being is a useful symbol for some who are in the
process of evolving, but it is not necessary.
6.  much suffering is created by lack of clear, honest communication
due to one misunderstanding of reality to be conveyed to another, thus
communication is one of the central keys to any problem solving.
7.  there exist no absolute, willful evil in the universe. Suffering
arises from ignorance.

Reading back over this I realize that much of what I have done is to
give my interpretation of the Four Noble Truths. Be that as it may. I
have always found them to be of much use. Thinking now I find that the
Forth Noble Truth (Eightfold Path) is what is being described in the
Tao Te Ching and most likely in other texts.

So this is where I am today with my world view. I am sure my words are
incomplete but its a good start. As a side note, I have used Kurt as
my critic, not because I believe he fundamentally disagrees with me,
simply that I have him strongly associated with the empirical critic
archetype. Thank you Kurt. I find myself shifting from a very T means
of thinking to an F dominate desire to thank lots of people who have
helped me develop this. Too many people to name, but here are few of
the people that have positively affected my development of this world
view: Neil, Judson, James, David (Sellers), Connie, Andy, Chris,
Patrick, Eric, Stephen, Frank, Don. Oddly they are all male, except
Connie. Will have to think about that. I don't believe this model is
complete, it is in process, but I am pleased with the direction of the
process. Pleased isn't quite right, it sounds much too smug. Perhaps
at peace with the direction of the process is more accurate.

Thanks for reading, feedback is always appreciated
Love
Mark


