ZEN (C. Ch'an) FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
0. What's in this FAQ?
------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. What is Zen? (The historical question)
2. What is Zen? (The spiritual question)
3. Why do Zen writings seem like nonsense?
4. What is meditation? (Zazen)
5. How should a beginner begin their study of Zen Buddhism?
6. Introductory reading list
7. About this FAQ

1. What is Zen? (The historical question)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Historically, Buddhism originates in the teachings of Siddhartha
Gautama. Around 500 B.C. he was born a Sakyan prince (Indo-Scythian)
north of Benares at Kapliavastu. At the age of 29, deeply troubled by
the suffering he saw around him, he renounced his privileged life, his
wife and child, and went out among the Shramana (shaman) acetics to
seek understanding. After 6 years of struggle he finally understood
the meaning of enlightenment under the legendary Bo-tree. After this
he was recognized as a Buddha (meaning "The Awakened One"). He taught
for some forty years then died at Kusinagara in Oudh, India. According
to the Mahayana tradition the Buddha did not actually die, because the
Buddha is a spiritual entity called the Dharmakaya. Only the corpse of
Siddhartha Gautama remained behind where it was given the burial of a
Chakravartin (Wheel King).

     The very first sermon was delivered by the Buddha in Benares on
the Four Noble Truths and the Eight-fold Path. He taught that proper
religious practice consists in the avoidance of sensualism and
physical austerities, called the Middle Way. In the Four Noble Truths,
he declared the truth of suffering; its nature or cause; its ending,
and the correct means to accomplish the end of suffering.

    The school of Zen Buddhism begins with a Central Asian Buddhist
monk named Bodhidharma arriving in Southern China (470-475 C.E.) who
belonged to the Lanka School which later became known as Zen (C.
Ch'an). Based on the _Lankavatara Sutra_, the doctrine of the Lanka
School mainly concerned itself with the study of Mind, both its
absolute nature, and its evolved nature. It is believed by scholars
that Bodhidharma lived and taught in Northern China for about fifty
years. The original practitioners of the Lanka School were noted for
the ascetic (C. t'ou-t'o) life, living faraway from human dwelling
places.

     Not until the ninth century did the name Ch'an (J. Zen) become
adopted. Early Zen became associated with enlightenment rather than
physical seated meditation. During the Sung period of China Zen was
synonymous with Buddha Mind (C. fo-hsin), not seated meditation as it
is comely believed by present day Japanese Zen teachers and their
followers. Around 1200 A.D. Ch'an Buddhism spread from China to Japan
where it is called (at least in translation) Zen Buddhism and known
primarily in its Japanese form.

2. What is Zen? (The spiritual question)
-------------------------------------------------------------------
    This question basically asks "What is the fundamental nature of
Mind?" It appears in various guises throughout Zen literature, from
"What is the meaning of Bodhidharma's coming from the West?" to "The
One hand clapping sound." The question penetrates into the heart of
the matter and can only be answered in a flash of intimate intuition
in which the truth of Mind is seen to be the substratum of existence.
As to the role of practice, or what the Chinese Zennists call
"cultivation", Zen is paradoxically the cultivation of
non-cultivation, recognizing that we need only remove the illusion of
non-enlightenment to become enlightened.

3. Why do Zen writings seem like nonsense?
---------------------------------------------------------------------
    One of the central points of Zen is intuitive comprehension. When
we come to realize the fundamental nature of Mind, Zen becomes
super-logical. On the other hand, when we attempt to examine the
nature of Mind through emotions, ego-pain, mental pictures, and
discursive ideas based on sense perception, Zen seems like nonsense.
Because everything arises from Mind, Mind cannot be measured through
its creations because the latter are not as perfect as Mind itself. On
the other hand, directly coalescing with Mind everything makes perfect
sense just as they are--as they arise from Mind. All things thus
reveal the pure function of Buddha Mind. Just so, we see the natural
world as a manifestation of the cosmic Buddha. When the Zen master
Joshu wipes crumbs off his robe he is demonstrating the primordial
power of Mind to move his body perfectly--although he is no longer
attached to his body, now being Mind.

4. What is meditation? (Zazen)
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Introduction

    Meditation refers to contemplation, generally, the contemplation
of both the corporeal body within, and the Buddha-nature. The Buddhist
Sanskrit term for meditation is BHAVANA which literally means the
action of promoting, or the same, attending (Mindfulness). Because we
are potentially pure Mind, mentally attending to the body calms it
down and makes it peaceful and less violent. In this meditation, we
neither cling to thought forms and emotions, nor reject them. This is
called Shamatha (C. chih) meditation. In Vipashyana (C. kuan), or
insight meditation, Mind is directed to recollecting itself because it
suffers from spiritual amnesia, having in the past followed its
generations, forgetting its native whereabouts. Through Visashyana
meditation we come to uncover the nature of Mind itself, namely, our
Buddha-nature. As a result, we observe that all phenomena are
changing, momentary, and finite; that in fact they arise from Buddha
Mind itself and return to it moment to moment. Thus we begin to see
that all things are like a dream, a sudden flash of lightning, or
bubbles in a body of water. In seeing this way, we reside in the fixed
immovable source of things free from further samsaric conditioning.

     Both forms of meditation are vital in Zen Buddhism. However,
Shamatha meditation, which is generally done in a seated position,
cannot alone restore the nature of Mind which we are unable to
remember. The Zen adept also needs to meditate on just what the nature
of Mind exactly is. Insight meditation as well, becomes impossible if
the body is not relaxed and clammed. If we are attached to violent
thoughts and emotions, unable to control our desires, Vipashyana
meditation becomes difficult to maintain.

SITTING METHODS FOR BEGINNERS

     The cross legged positions provide greatest stability. To sit in
full lotus position, place the right foot on the left thigh and then
the left foot on the right thigh. To sit in half lotus place your left
foot on your right thigh. Try to cross the legs firmly so that a
stable tripod of support is provided by the knees and the base of the
spine. The order of the crossing of the legs may be reversed. It is
also possible to simply sit on the floor with one foreleg in front of
the other or kneeling using a bench or a cushion. To sit in a chair,
place the feet flat on the floor and place your buttocks on the edge
of the chair so the upper thighs are not touching the chair. Follow
the rest of the instructions.

     Rest the knees firmly on the matt, for cross legged positions,
straighten the lower back, push the buttocks outward and the hips
forward, and straighten your spine. Pull in your chin and extend the
neck as though to support the ceiling. The ears and shoulders should
be in the same plane with the nose directly above the navel.
Straighten the back and relax shoulders, back, and abdomen without
changing posture. Keep the mouth closed placing the tongue with the
tip just behind the front teeth and the rest of the tongue as close to
the roof of the mouth as comfortable. Keep the eyes at least slightly
open cast downward at a 45 degree angle without focusing on anything.
If closed you may slip into drowsiness or daydreaming. Rest the hands
palm up on the knees and take 2 or 3 deep abdominal breaths. Exhale
smoothly and slowly with the mouth slightly open by pulling in on the
abdominal wall until all air has been expelled and inhale by closing
the mouth and breathing naturally. Hands still on the knees sway the
upper half of the body left to right a few times without moving the
hips. Sway forward and back. These swayings are at first larger and
then smaller enabling you to find the point of balance of your
posture. Next, place your hands next to your abdomen, palms up with
the left hand resting in the right hand with the thumbs slightly
touching.

** Cross legged Sitting may incur pain to the knees, do not force your
legs into positions that causes extreme pain. Stretch out before
sitting helps in prolong sitting and will in time, enable one to sit
cross legged style.**

     While sitting, observe your breathing, but do not try to
manipulate the rhythm or depth of the breath. Breathe gently and
silently through the nose without attempting to control or manipulate
the breathing. Let the breath come and go naturally so that you forget
all about it. Simply let long breaths be long and short ones short
without clinging or controlling. Remember, that your fundamental
nature is not inhalation or exhalation, although it moves both.
Keeping this in mind, great freedom is soon realized as the body
accepts the power of Mind to govern it. On inhalation the abdomen just
expands naturally like a balloon inflating, while on exhalation simply
let it deflate. It is recommended that one feel a sense of strength in
the abdomen in breathing, that the exhalation be done in a very slow
smooth and gradual way or a very slight contraction of the anus on
exhalation (this should be so slight it may be more felt as an
intention than as a physical contraction) be performed.

AWARENESS

Do not concentrate on any particular object or attempt to control
thoughts, emotions, or any modifications of sensory consciousness. By
simply maintaining proper posture and breathing the mind settles by
itself without effort. When thoughts, feelings, etc. arise, do not get
caught up by them or fight them. Simply permit any object of mind to
come and go freely. The essential point is to always strive to wake up
from distraction (thoughts, emotions, images, etc.) or dullness and
drowsiness. Letting go of any thought is itself is a form of
liberation; and over time, it will seem easier to let go of more
difficult and deeper seated problems. Finally, when meditation becomes
peaceful, one is able to contemplate the more profound principles of
Buddhism.

DIFFICULTIES AND EXPEDIENTS

The art of right awareness, of maintaining spiritual wakefulness, may
seem difficult and the description given above is somewhat abstract.
If you are finding difficulties in your progress towards achieving
calmness and centeredness, talk about it with others. In Zazen our
fears and doubts are constantly brought up; we may panic; get angry;
cry, or even laugh. Yet, we may return to Zazen again and again to
face these terrors that haunt us in our every day life until their
root cause is ended. As we do face the seeming horrors of our self, we
eventually see them for what they are. Eventually, these matters are
seen to be empty and impotent. Moreover, we begin to sense something
which is free from difficulties--something which is pure and
ineffable. Over time, as we sit, we find it easy to let go of thoughts
and mental-pictures. We come to see how we have attached ourselves, in
the past, to thoughts and feelings which have conditioned the present,
and harboring over the future, causing us to suffer right now. We also
see, that living a pure life that attaches less to emotional thoughts
and ideas created by our imagination, lays the foundation for a future
life of happiness.

     After much practice, we learn to extend Zazen into our daily
lives. Whether or not we are standing, lying down, or working in the
garden, we find in easier to let go of our deluded thoughts being less
likely to obey their commands, thus to do harm to other beings.

5.  How should a beginner begin their study of Zen Buddhism?
---------------------------------------------------------------------

    First, it is always necessary to become familiar with the language
of Buddhism, remembering that the goal of Zen is enlightenment, not
just Zazen, in which case there is much to learn. If you are not
familiar with the language of Buddhism how can your friends help you
and teach you about the mysterious nature of Mind? If, for example,
you don't know what gold looks like, how can you begin your search?
You need, for instance, to learn the Four Noble Truths (Chatvari
ariya-sachchani), understanding what they mean. You need to know that
the Four Noble Truths pertain to the nature of Mind, that when Mind
blindly clings to its manifestations it comes to experience suffering,
or the same, disharmony (dukkha). Beginners should be familiar with
the canonical works of Buddhism called the Tripitakas. In addition
they should read Mahayana scriptures of the Mahaprajnaparamita class,
most important the _Heart Sutra_ and the _Diamond Cutter of Doubts_.
In addition, students should read the foundational Sutra of Zen
Buddhism which is the _Lankavatara Sutra_. Other Sutras such as the
_Shurangama_, the _Vimalakirit Nirdesha_, and the _Shrimaladevi
Sutra_, are also extremely important to read.

    As for Zen texts in particular, it is important to read orthodox
material such as the _The Zen Teaching of Bodhidharma_; _The Platform
Scripture_ by Hui Neng the Sixth Patriarch of Zen Buddhism; _The Zen
Teaching of Huang Po_ and _The Zen Teaching of Hui Hai_. Beginners
should avoid modern books on Zen if they do not teach Mind doctrine.
Beginners should first ground themselves in orthodox Zen classics and
traditional Buddhist literature avoiding non-Mind doctrine
publications. In so doing they will be able to reach the fruit of the
path sooner and come to know the joy of breaking the bonds of rebirth.
In reading proper and accepted books on Zen Buddhism there will be no
error created either, and thus no future cause for regret.
Historically, in China, Zen literature was by far the most widely
published and read. Traditional Zen masters studied all the major
Sutras and were very skilled in commenting on the arcane principles
contained in the various Sutras. Beginners should understand that Zen
Buddhism is the most direct teaching in Buddhism, and to become a
members one must be want to be a member. Just like an University, Zen
is only looking for a good people whom are intelligent, free from
religious pride, non-hating, and compassionate, and above all are
willing to learn the sublime doctrine of the Buddhas.

6. INTRODUCTORY READING LIST
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The following short list of books is meant to help the beginner
gain, not only a philosophical understanding of Zen, but also, at
least, an intellectual understanding of law of Buddha. There are many
other books available, so many that space on this FAQ does not permit
anything close to a comprehensive list. Instead we give this short
list which covers most fundamental aspects of Zen and the Mind
doctrine. There are also many other wonderful writers and books on
this subject, this list is INTRODUCTORY ONLY. You are encouraged to
use your own judgement when selecting material to read. In short, find
something that seems readable to you at first. In addition, you will
find that traditional Zen books will be revisited many times as you
come to know the depth of Zen!

    May these books be the Point of departure of your path to Awakening.

*A Buddhist Bible* Edited by Dwight Goddard:(Boston : Beacon Press,1970,
c1938)
    This book has translations of the Diamond Sutra, Dao De King (more
popularly known as Tao Te Ching), the Platform Sutra of the Sixth Zen
Patriarch (See NOTE) the Awakening of Faith Shastra, solid fundamental
discussions of the historical Buddha and his teachings.
NOTE:  This particular translation of the Sixth Patriarch's
Platform Sutra is worded in a way which might be easier understood by
reading other translations.  Goddard's _Buddhist Bible_, it should be
underscored, contains the orthodox Sutras of Zen Buddhism.

*Questions to a Zen Master* By Taisen Deshimaru:
     Except for the excellent chapter on Zazen (Soto style) this book
shows many basic religious and philosophical implications of Zen.  With
a heavy taste of the "just sitting" Soto Zen style, Master Deshimaru
covers frontiers of the mind in an easy reading style that maintains
the integrity of Truth.

*Zen letters : teachings of Yuanwu*, trans. & ed. J.C. Cleary and Thomas
Cleary.  (Boston : Shambhala,1994)

*The Zen teachings of Master Lin-chi*, trans. Burton Watson
(Boston : Shambhala Publications, 1993)

*Meditating with koans*, trans. J. C. Cleary (Berkeley, Calif: Asian
Humanities Press, 1992)

*The transmission of the lamp : early masters* trans. Sohaku Ogata
(Wolfeboro, N.H. : Longwood Academic, 1990)

*The Zen teaching of Bodhidharma*, trans. Red Pine (San Francisco : North
Point Press, 1987)

*The record of Tung-shan*, trans. William F. Powell (Honolulu : University
of Hawaii Press, 1986)

*A Zen forest, sayings of the masters*, trans. Soiku Shigematsu (New York :
Weatherhill, 1981)

*Zen : poems, prayers, sermons, anecdotes, interviews*, trans. Lucien Stryk
and Takashi Ikemoto (Athens, Ohio : Swallow Press, Ohio University Press,
1981)

*The recorded sayings of Ch'an master Lin-chi Hui-chao of Chen prefecture*,
trans. Ruth Fuller Sasaki (Kyoto : Institute for Zen Studies, 1975)

*The Zen teaching of Hui Hai on sudden illumination*,  trans. John Blofeld
(London : Rider,1969, c1962)

*The Zen teaching of Huang Po on the transmission of mind*,
trans. John Blofeld (Chu Ch'an) (London : The Buddhist Society,1968, c1958)

Hui-neng, *The Platform Scripture*, trans. Chan, Wing-tsit (New York : St.
John's University Press, 1963)

*The iron flute; 100 Zen koan*, trans. Nyogen Senzaki and Ruth Strout
McCandless (Tokyo, Rutland Vt. : C.E. Tuttle Co., 1961)

*Ch'an and Zen teaching*, ed. & trans. Lu K`uan Yu (Charles Luk). (London :
Rider,1960)

Paul Reps, *Zen flesh, Zen bones* (Tokyo, Rutland, Vt. : C.E. Tuttle Co.,
1957)

D.T. Suzuki, *Manual of Zen Buddhism*, (London, New York : Published for
the Buddhist Society, by Rider,1956)

7. About this FAQ
------------------------------------------------------------------------
You are free and encourage to post this FAQ in any and all areas that may
help others.  This document has an limited copyright.  You may print,
distribute this document in any format as long as the document is not
altered.

Revised and edited by:(Mark Vetanen) Mvetanen@aol.com
and (Ardent Hollingsworth) Zenmar@aol.com 4/26 (c)1995
------------------------------------------------------------------------
