
                             Wisdom Traits

Materials quoted or paraphrased from:
Sternberg, Robert J., ed. Wisdom: Its Nature, Origins, and Development. New
York: Cambridge, 1990.

Robert Sternberg asked several college professors and students to sort
several traits deemed as wise into categories. Six categories were
determined. Those categories follow.

1. Reasoning ability- problem solving skills, logical mind, ability to
apply knowledge rationally, connections and distinctions between ideas
and things.

2. Sagacity- concern for others, considers advice, understands people,
thoughtful, not afraid to admit to making a mistake.

3. Learning from ideas and environment- learns from other peoples mistakes,
attaches importance to ideas, is perceptive.

4. Judgement- acts within own physical and intellectual limitations,
sensible, good judgement at all times, thinks before speaking.

5. Expeditious use of information- experienced, seeks out information,
age, maturity, or long experience, learns and remembers, changes mind
on basis of experience.

6. Perspicacity- intuition, reading between the lines, the ability to
understand and interpret her environment.

Patricia Kennedy Arlin- Arlin focuses on the problem solving aspects
of wisdom. She lists traits she surmises coincide with traits of good
problem solving.

1. The search for complementarity- "Problem finding is essentially the
establishment of the need for a new and highly complex mental program."

2. The detection of asymmetry- Ability to detect lack of balance
"where the casual observer notes no differences or finds a
conventional explanation to be satisfactory. Genius is not a
requirement for wisdom, Wisdom involves a sensitivity to both symmetry
and asymmetry. Wisdom is present in the noticing of subtle features
that make a difference in problem solving definitions and ultimately
in problem solving."

3. Openness to change- "Wisdom has as one of its requirements the
willingness to remain open to receive new information and on the basis
of that information to be willing to change one's worldview. Perhaps
wisdom arises from the opportunity to experience changes in our own
beliefs and assumptions- changes that help us realize that the ideas
and priorities that seem so clear today will probably be modified as a
function of new experiences.

4. Pushing the limits- "Wisdom is not attributed to judgements or
solutions because of their close conformity to an acknowledged
standard of right or wrong. Wise decisions, solutions, and judgements
are often acknowledged as wise because they push these standards to
their limits or create types of metastandards that redefine the
acceptable."

Karen Kitchener and Helene Brenner- These two focus on wisdom in the
face of uncertainty. Listed below are traits they consider to be
wisdom traits.

1. Recognition of the presence of unavoidably difficult problems
inherent in the lives of adults.

2. A comprehensive grasp of knowledge characterized by both breadth
and depth.

3. A recognition that knowledge is uncertain and that it is not
possible for truth to be absolutely knowable at any given time.

4. A willingness and exceptional ability to formulate sound, executable
judgements in the face of this uncertainty.
