I didn't get much sleep last night -- my guess is that I ended up sleeping
for about an hour or so.  I was fairly restless, thinking about God and
about life in general.

Many things were running through my head, kind of playing like ostinato
refrains.  The foremost one was a verse from Psalm 51:  "Create in me a
clean heart, O God."  And a bit from Handel's Messiah, which is eventually
from Isaiah, I think:  "For he is like a refiner's fire."  And a line from
a Watermark song:  "I have been chosen to be driven to humility -- to be
wholly refined in your holy blaze of fire."  And a line from a song that
Paul and I wrote:  "set us ablaze with the fire of your love; consume us
in your holy flame."  And another line from a Paul/Deanna song:  "Gathered
together we pray in your name, bearing within us your living flame."  And
a line from a song by Third Day:  "For he is like a consuming fire."

And the thing is, I FELT like that, all night.  Like something is being
burned away.  Like gold being refined and refined and refined so that
nothing but gold remains, melted together, and fused, and poured according
to the will of the Goldsmith.  It's kind of the opposite of that poem that
Sabrina likes to quote:  "nothing gold can stay."  But for me last night,
the feeling was that "nothing NOT gold can stay" -- or "ONLY gold can
stay."  Until, to mix my metaphors, all that's left is the "clean heart"
-- radically open, radically loving.  And the thing is that I didn't shy
away from all this fire -- I just wanted more, and more, and more; I'm
reminded of the statue of Teresa of Avila with the angel with the flaming
arrow, or of standing in the middle of the furnace like Shadrach, Meshach,
and Abednego, except it's not that I'm not getting burned, it's that I
don't mind being burned.  I'm still a little unsure of what's been the
result of all this, because I'm so exhausted -- but as a fellow student of
mine at CUA used to say, "it's all good."

The funny thing about that verse from Psalm 51 is some of the verbiage
that follows it:

"Create in me a clean heart, O God,
And renew a steadfast spirit within me.
Do not cast me away from Your presence,
And do not take Your Holy Spirit from me.
Restore to me the joy of Your salvation
And sustain me with a willing spirit."

And that's what it's all about:  the "willing spirit."  That, coupled with
the "clean heart," ever more purified by the "refiner's fire," is what I
have to offer to God, and to the world.

I'm a little frightened by this intensity, but that's OK.  What's
important is the "clean heart," and that is becoming very, very palpable.

-------------------------------

That was a couple of days ago -- Wednesday night was the restless
night, and I wrote this on Thursday morning. I still feel "clean."
It's funny -- I look for tapes that used to play in my head, telling
me deceitful or hurtful things about myself and about how the world
is, and they're just not there any more. There's a quiet, a calm, a
peace, a rightness, an openness, a space, a reverence, a holiness. I'm
almost afraid to move and explore this new place for fear of losing
it, but the time will come for that when I'm ready. There is such
freedom here, such clarity.

The other insight I had about this Thursday is that it's exactly this
kind of experience which convinces me of the importance of liturgy,
which is one of the most powerful tools we have for getting the
stories, the myths, and the rituals that have been important to people
over the past several thousand years into our heads. Without Psalm 51,
who's to say that the spark to ignite all this fire would have been
there, and without having heard Psalm 51 many times in the context of
liturgy, who's to say that I would have had it to play in my head on
Wednesday night? Liturgy is one of the most important ways that we can
acquire the stories, which are the building blocks (or the catalysts
-- take your pick of metaphors) for integrations like this; they
provide the challenge to growth and the context in which to do it, and
the tools with which to do it (if we can only learn how to use it in
that way).

This morning's insight is the importance of people in the call to
something like this. I think this got started, in some way, by
something a that friend of mine, who went through the dark valley of
St. Benedict's with me and was at St. Brendan's for a while before
things in his life shifted and prevented him from being involved
there, said to me about two months ago. He said that he was tired of
watching me choose to play second fiddle when I am a first-chair
violinist. Now, I'm not sure that my musical skills qualify for me for
that -- I'm really just an above-average amateur as far as the musical
skill level goes -- but what was more important about what he said was
the general principle. What he said was challenging me to get rid of
some assumptions about myself and about the world, and it's been in
the back of my head as a subtle undercurrent ever since he said it to
me, challenging me to open myself to other possibilities. Not many
people would have had the courage or the honesty to say something like
that, or the clarity of mind and of heart and of soul to see it in the
first place -- and I thank him for saying it, and I thank God for
"laying it on his heart" (a phrase I used to hear in my Baptist days,
but which has a powerful ring to it now). (There is more to say, I
think, about the place of people in calling forth these insights, but
more on that at some other time -- no need to go rushing headlong into
more details for the moment, since the example above suffices to make
the point. And I am an intuitive, after all, so be happy you got even
the one example! ;-) )

The outgrowth of that insight is how important it is to be honest with
the people we love. We call each other to growth, to the path of
righteousness, to the narrow way, to the razor's edge, to the
refiner's fire -- choose your metaphor. It's hard to be there, to put
yourself in that position where you can be challenged to grow, and we
owe it to each other to call each other to that by our openness and
our honesty -- and not even just by saying things to people, but by
being it, unflinchingly, unafraid. By providing the model for it in
whatever context we're in. That's why it's important to me to stay
within the structure of the Church (for now, anyway): so that I can
provide a model, with whatever clarity I can and in all humility, for
growth within that structure, to share some of what I have been given
by the grace of God, and to learn from others who have clarity or
insights or understanding that I don't, so that we can all challenge
each other to growth -- all for the greater glory of God.

My parting thought is on the pairing of the "clean heart" imagery with
the "refiner's fire" imagery: the fusion of those two images gives new
meaning for me to the phrase "heart of gold." But that doesn't really
work, somehow. The "clean heart" is more reminiscent to me of the
purification rituals in Jewish households for Passover, where ovens
are fired and utensils are meticulously cleaned to get rid of any
traces of leaven (I don't fully understand all the details, of course,
so this may limp a little). It's like that more than it is forging a
"heart of gold" -- it's more like cleansing by fire. Like preparing
for Passover, when God will be passing by and leading us into a new
land. Like preparing the way of the Lord, making "straight in the
desert a highway for our God." But it's within ourselves that we
prepare the way, so that God can work in us and through us for the
world. And God is love -- and all who live in love live in God, and
God in them.

Deanna Light
(wanted to sign with both names just now!)
