From: James Rushing <baalshem@ufl.edu>
Subject: A really awesome quote

This is from a fantasy book I'm reading. It's called "Stone of Tears" by
Terry Goodkind. One of the biggest reasons I love fantasy is because
there's so much transformation and Truth that comes out in magic. Here's
a quote that is just right on for me in this time in my life:

"Be proud that you made the right choices, the choices that allowed to
happen what came about, but do not call arrogance into your heart by
believing that all that happened was your doing."

When I think back on my life, I am very proud of the choices I've made
that have brought me to this point -- how I've dealt with my situation
in the past year, and the choices I make now out of integrity and
courage. But equally strong is the gratitude I have for the people in my
life who have shaped those choices; who have guided me and shown me how
to become the person I am, or who have presented the challenges in my
life where I had to choose. So while I am proud of what I've done, and I
own my strength, it has also been due to grace and no small compassion
on the parts of the people who love me. And that, I am immensely
grateful for. And even the people who have presented the challenges to
me, who at the time I believed were hurting me, I can look upon with
compassion and love because in no small way they provided the
circumstances for me to know myself as I do now.

In hurting me, these people helped me see the truth of Hafiz's words:

"And then You are
A cruel word that stabs me
From the mouth of a strange costume You wear;
A guise You had too long tricked me into thinking
Could be other -- than You."

Their part in my suffering is upon their own hearts, but I cannot but
forgive them when I see what choices I was able to make because of that
pain. Without it, I would not have known that I could be... like this. I
would never have known what to ask for if I hadn't been shown so deeply
that I was lacking it. And so I am grateful for the chance to prove,
once again, that I love Her.

She destroys me, but I am a willing sacrifice. And that's the true
mystery -- without the Willingness, nothing else comes about. Without
willingness, nothing is possible -- with it, nothing is denied.

Love!
james

