From: TTU::WJH3957      "W.J. Holcomb --"  6-OCT-1999 15:33:48.73
To:   MALL STEPH
CC:   WJH3957
Subj: sj: bitching

This is just a short message to blow off some steam. I had a run in
with one of my professors today. I am in assembly programming with Dr.
Hume and I went to talk with him today about a program that I am
working on and we reached that point where you're not quite yelling
but the volume is going up a little and there's a definite bite to
your tone.

I wanted him to explain a couple of simple things to me and he told me
he wouldn't because he was going to lunch. I went to talk to him on
monday about some stuff and then I went off and worked for a while and
then I went in and talked to him yesterday and he told me some other
stuff and he said that he would be in his office today to talk to me.

I realize that the guy is busy and that he needs to eat, but I had to
go to his office because what he told me yesterday was wrong. It
wasn't just a misunderstanding; it was flat out wrong.

I really love programming. I like taking a goal in my head and
breaking it apart into atomic parts and figuring out what parts ought
to be done in what ways to achieve the most effective solution.

Dr. Hume's gave us a problem to write a program to solve. Then he
suggested a method for solving it. His was messy though. It required
more work of the end user than it had to. I have a really hard time
explaining what quality means for me in programming. It means that you
do everything possible to create as failsafe and lasting a product as
you can. Even if you don't think that anyone would ever try to break
it in the way that you are failsafing against you still make it safe.

I was talking to Matt Marsee who is in my class and I was telling him
about some of the things that I was doing. He asked me, "you know that
you don't get any more points for that don't you?" And when I told him
yes he asked me why I bothered. "It's love of the game really;" I
actually enjoy what I do.

I want to do the best job that I can just because. Not because it gets
me a better grade; it doesn't.

And so I am doing things that the rest of the people in my class
aren't. In programming you can package a data together and pass it
around as a collection rather than passing it one bit at a time (C
structs for those of you savvy) and I wanted to use those because we
were passing around pieces of data that had a logical grouping. So I
went to Hume and he told me completely incorrectly how to do it.

After some poking around and testing I figured it out and then I
wanted to know something about allocating memory and that's when he
wouldn't see me. I didn't ask him on Tuesday because I was still
trying to figure out what it was that he had mistold me on Monday.

It's not like I waited until today to begin it. I started about a week
ago and have been working consistently. Despite setbacks from
misinformation.

I guess in the end I expect Hume to know his stuff inside out and he
doesn't. I am going to write sometime about sublimation of personality
and in my opinion if he is going to be a teacher then he has a moral
duty to know what he is teaching fairly well and be able to
communicate it.

He told me that there were no subroutines in assembly. I broke apart
my code into several different parts unnecessarily because I believed
him. Once I read in the book about subroutines I put it all back.

Does the fact that I want to make good stuff even when it doesn't
matter to anyone else make sense? Hume doesn't get it either I don't
think and without that understanding we're living on different worlds
trying to communicate.

Ah well, I've avoided work for long enough.

Will
