Elephants

How do you kill a blue elephant?
Shoot it with a blue elephant gun.

How do you kill a red elephant?
Strangle it until it turns blue then shoot it with a blue elephant gun?

How do you kill a yellow elephant?
Tell it a dirty joke so it turns red, strangle it until it turns blue, 
and then shoot it with a blue elephant gun.

How do you kill a green elephant?
Don't be silly. There is no such thing as a green elephant.


--------------------------------------------------------------------   


Where do pets come from?

It is reported that the following edition of the Book of Genesis was 
discovered in the Dead Seal Scrolls. If authentic, it would shed light 
on the question, "Where do pets come from?"

And Adam said, "Lord, when I was in the garden, you walked with me 
everyday. Now I do not see you anymore. I am lonesome here and it is 
difficult for me to remember how much you love me."

And God said, "No problem! I will create a companion for you that will 
be with you forever and who will be a reflection of my love for you, so 
that you will know I love you, even when you cannot see me.

Regardless of how selfish and childish and unlovable you may be, this 
new companion will accept you as you are and will love you as I do, in 
spite of yourself."

And God created a new animal to be a companion for Adam. And it was a 
good animal. And God was pleased.

And the new animal was pleased to be with Adam and he wagged his tail. 
And Adam said, "But Lord, I have already named all the animals in the 
Kingdom and all the good names are taken and I cannot think of a name 
for this new animal."

And God said, "No problem! Because I have created this new animal to be 
a reflection of my love for you, his name will be a reflection of my own 
name, and you will call him DOG."

And Dog lived with Adam and was a companion to him and loved him. And 
Adam was comforted.

And God was pleased. And Dog was content and wagged his tail.

After a while, it came to pass that Adam's guardian angel came to the 
Lord and said, "Lord, Adam has become filled with pride. He struts and 
preens like a peacock and he believes he is worthy of adoration. Dog has 
indeed taught him that he is loved, but no one has taught him humility." 


And the Lord said, "No problem! I will create for him a companion who 
will be with him forever and who will see him as he is. The companion 
will remind him of his limitations, so he will know that he is not 
always worthy of adoration."

And God created CAT (Companion for Adam's Teaching) to be a companion to 
Adam. And Cat would not obey Adam.

And when Adam gazed into Cat's eyes, he was reminded that he was not the 
supreme being. And Adam learned humility.

And God was pleased. And Adam was greatly improved.

And Cat did not care one way or the other.
