ENFJ: "Busybody" Life's backseat drivers. They seem to know just
what's wrong with everybody else's life and have a plan to fix it.

INFJ: "Messiah" Characterized by the burning desire to change the
world, which desperately needs everyone to be NF.

ENFP: "Muckraker" Creator of hype, distortion, and the perversion of
media of information to be wallows of mindless emotionalism.

INFP: "Fanatic" Always searching for an Answer with a capital A.
Unlike the INFJ, they are usually openminded enough to realize the
current one isn't good enough after a few years.

ENTJ: "Tyrant" Knows better than everyone how things should be done
and works tirelessly to obtain the power to make it happen that way.

INTJ: "Crackpot" All facts which don't fit their theories are just
wrong. The more all-encompassing and less applicable to reality the
theories, the better.

ENTP: "Frankenstein" The salvation of the world is to be found in this
new nanotronic frannistan, of which he just happens to have an
almost-working model...

INTP: "Nerd" What? you mean people actually talk to each other using
mouths and ears instead of keyboards????

ESTJ: "Stuffed Shirt" No imagination, no flexibility, no common sense,
no capacity for tolerance of others with different priorities.

ISTJ: "Bean Counter" Like the ESTJ but with less vision.

ESFJ: "Gossip" Like the Busybody, but characterized by the urge to
backstab instead of trying to help.

ISFJ: "Sidekick" Doesn't need much meaning in life, just a person (or
baby or pet or car) to spend all their time ministering to.

ESTP: "Beer Drinker" Loud, crude, plays team sports, kisses and tells.
These are the people beer commercials are made for.

ESFP: "Clown" Always the class troublemaker, they have no respect for
anybody or anything. Good at snide wisecracks.

ISTP: "Assasin" Hates people, and is good at killing them. Young
ISTP's are good at killing pictures of people in video games.

ISFP: "Snob" Revels in the elaborate sensations of wine and paintings
and music that are completely indistinguishable to ordinary people.
Likes flowers.
