A missionary on furlough told this true story while visiting his home
church in Michigan... 

While serving at a small field hospital in Africa, every two weeks I
traveled by bicycle through the jungle to a nearby city for supplies.
This was a journey of two days and required camping overnight at the 
halfway point.

On one of these journeys, I arrived in the city where I planned to
collect money from a bank, purchase medicine and supplies, and then
begin my two-day journey back to the field hospital. Upon arrival In
the city, I observed two men fighting, one of whom had been seriously
injured. I treated him for his injuries and at the same time
witnessed to him of the Lord Jesus Christ. I then traveled two days,
camping overnight, and arrived home without incident.

Two weeks later I repeated my journey. Upon arriving in the city, I
was approached by the young man I had treated. He told me that he had
known I carried money and medicines. He said, "Some friends and I
followed you into the jungle, knowing you would camp overnight. We
planned to kill you and take your money and drugs. But just as we
were about to move into your camp, we saw that you were surrounded by
26 armed guards."

At this I laughed and said that I was certainly all alone out in that
jungle campsite. The young man pressed the point, however, and said
"No sir, I was not the only person to see the guards. My five 
friends also saw them, and we all counted them. It was because of
those guards that we were afraid and left you alone."

At this point in the sermon, one of the men in the congregation 
jumped to his feet and interrupted the missionary and asked if he
could tell him the exact day that this happened. The missionary told
the congregation the date, and the man who interrupted told him this
story:

"On the night of your incident in Africa, it was morning here and I 
was preparing to go play golf. I was about to putt when I felt the
urge to pray for you. In fact, the urging of the Lord was so strong,
I called men in this church to meet with me here in the sanctuary to
pray for you. Would all of those men who met with me on that day
stand up?"

The men who had met together to pray that day stood up. The 
missionary wasn't concerned with who they were--he was to busy
counting how many men he saw.

There were 26.
