December 30, 1998
      
John Bayley and Iris Murdoch: Devotion Refuses to Yield

By SARAH LYALL
      
OXFORD, England -- Iris Murdoch, the celebrated author of 26
rigorously intellectual novels, stood uncertainly in the doorway of
her living room, her face frozen in the blank expression that is a
sure badge of Alzheimer's disease. It was only when she saw her
husband, the critic, professor and novelist John Bayley, that a
flicker of comprehension sparked in her eyes. But it was gone, as
quickly as it came.

     Jonathan Player for The New York Times
     
In "Elegy for Iris," John Bayley writes about life with his wife, Iris
Murdoch, who has Alzheimer's disease.
______________________________________________________________
     
"Hello, darling," Bayley said tenderly, as if speaking to a beloved
child.
     
"Wouldn't you like to come and sit down?"
     
It felt at first like a terrible intrusion, being in the house with
the couple. It was unbearably sad to see the once-brilliant Murdoch,
79, shuffle slowly into the room, sit stiffly and then do nothing but
stare intently ahead. And it was unbearably sad when Bayley began
explaining in his un-self-pitying, slightly quizzical way what life is
like now that Alzheimer's has his wife firmly in its grasp.
     
But Bayley and Murdoch, whose relationship began more than 40 years
ago when he saw her bicycling past his window in Oxford and fell
instantly in love, have never had an ordinary relationship. And by the
end of a morning with them, it was impossible not to believe that --
however odd it may seem -- they have made their peace, and are alone
together in a world that somehow suits them.
     
Bayley, who at 73 seems like a wholly sweet and slightly eccentric
uncle, dressed in indifferently fitting, indifferently laundered
clothes with a few strands of fluffy white hair flowing from the back
of his otherwise bald head, makes a passionate case for this view in
his new memoir, "Elegy for Iris." The book, which is being published
in the United States by St. Martin's Press, has drawn glowing reviews,
as both a lyric description of the arc of a singular marriage and as
an unflinching account of the frustrations of Alzheimer's.
     
There were slight rumblings in the British news media about Bayley's
motives for writing the book. Wasn't it cruel to expose Murdoch this
way, they asked? But Bayley is not embarrassed by his wife's state,
and neither should anyone else be, he said. "When something like this
happens, you lose all sense of shame and privacy," he said.
     
In the beginning, Bayley said, stuttering as he does when he speaks
quickly, he fought and raged against his wife's descent into
unknowingness. But he is past that now, and his anger has given way to
acceptance.
     
"Life is no longer bringing the pair of us 'closer and closer apart,'
in the poet's tenderly ambiguous words," he writes, in a typically
graceful passage. "There is a certain comic irony -- happily, not
darkly comic -- that after more than 40 years of taking marriage for
granted, marriage has decided it is tired of this and is taking a hand
in the game. Purposefully, persistently, involuntarily, our marriage
is now getting somewhere. It is giving us no choice -- and I am glad
of that."
     
The book is divided into two parts. The first, "Then," tells how
Bayley, a young and spectacularly unworldly scholar, was smitten from
the moment he glimpsed her. But Murdoch, a brilliant rising star who
was then teaching philosophy at St. Anne's College, Oxford, proved
elusive. When they embraced for the first time, speaking in a childish
shorthand, "with arms around each other, kissing and rubbing noses,"
he writes, he began to understand that she needed him as much as he
needed her.
     
Deciding not to have children, they both went on to have glittering
careers, although Murdoch's was the more public success.
     
As she was producing novel after novel and being made a Dame of the
British Empire, Bayley was making his own mark, as a teacher (he
retired several years ago as the Warton Professor of English
Literature at Oxford), reviewer and literary critic whose many books
include studies of Thomas Hardy, Jane Austen and Henry James, as well
as four novels. "Elegy for Iris" is studded with literary references
-- it is clear that he has found solace in literature -- but in
conversation Bayley is so self-effacing that it is easy to forget his
formidable intellect.
     
To him and his wife, marriage has always meant a refuge from
alone-ness, a secure haven that allows them their independence
together. In an odd way, Bayley said, this has helped him deal with
the constraints of the present. He looks forward to the end of the
day, when his wife is safely asleep and he can pour himself a drink
and revisit the comforts of one of his favorite books, typically a
well-worn novel by Barbara Pym or Austen.
     
"A solitary life is splendid, provided you can lead it with someone
else," he said. "That's paradoxical, but it's extremely true in our
case. We've always had that sort of life; she had her life, and I had
mine. And now one can have that same sort of thing. I do have that
solitary life because she's there, and I couldn't have it on my own.
It would simply disappear."
     
Bayley says he would not consider putting Murdoch in a nursing home
unless she became completely unmanageable and no longer recognized
him. She grows agitated when he is away, and he loses his purpose when
he is alone. "I don't know what to do by myself when she's not there,"
he said.
     
"Now," the second part of the book, takes up their story in the
mid-1990's, when the first signs of Alzheimer's manifested themselves.
It is a chilling account. Murdoch cannot find her words during a
question-and-answer session in Israel. She sets off for London and
returns three hours later, having forgotten where she was going.
     
She has trouble writing, for the first time ever (the novel she is
working on, "Jackson's Dilemma," turned out to be her last, and
Murdoch aficionados were puzzled by the inconsistencies in character
and plot). Later, when a doctor asks her who the Prime Minister is,
she is stymied.
     
"She had no idea but said to him with a smile that surely it didn't
matter," Bayley writes.
     
'Very Incurious' About Her Own Life
     
Mercifully, Murdoch didn't seem aware of what was happening and didn't
rebel against it, partly because she never had much of a sense of
self, anyway, Bayley said.
     
"She didn't have a great deal of consciousness of her own," he said.
"Coleridge mentioned the distinction between writers who live entirely
in their selves and writers like Shakespeare who seem to live a
complex external life inside their creations. Iris was like that. She
was extremely sociable and liked to hear about other people's lives,
but she was very incurious about her own."
     
When Bayley finished the book a year ago, Murdoch could have
occasional conversations. Very rarely, she still shows flickers of her
old self, but her condition is much worse now. He has to lock the
front door so she won't wander down the street. He can't take her
swimming in the river they have always loved, for fear that she will
suddenly forget how. One of the high points of their days together is
when "Teletubbies," a children's television show, comes on.
     
Murdoch is like "a very nice 3-year-old," her husband says, and she
needs to be fed, bathed and changed. And there is the constant strain
of meals to be prepared, of dishes to be done, of a house to keep
clean. The couple have always been careless housekeepers, at best, and
now Bayley admits that he has all but given up. Indeed, their house is
shockingly untidy. Coats are piled high on the kitchen floor, dirty
dishes cover the breakfast table, and the living room is a hodgepodge
of books, old coffee cups, plants in various stages of decrepitude and
what looks like a lifetime's worth of detritus.
     
But friends say that Bayley is a classically eccentric Oxford don, one
of a breed who have always been famously indifferent to their
surroundings. And Bayley is adamant that he doesn't want, or need, any
help.
     
"I think I would get fussed and bothered if someone came and did it,"
he said.
     
"For one thing, they'd want to do it according to much higher
standards." He chuckled. "I really don't see any point in trying to
clear it all up."
     
'It's Partly A Good Thing'
     
Strangely enough, Bayley said, he feels the Iris of today -- the
shuffling, uncomprehending Iris -- is the same Iris he knew before,
the one of the sparkling conversation and the endlessly questioning
mind.
     
"I feel it's not only the same person, but it's always been the same
person," he explained. "Though I have a very good memory -- I can
remember where we went and what we did -- I can't remember the feel of
it, you see, the sensation of a person who was completely normal. It's
partly a good thing, because she seems perfectly normal to me at
present."
     
For the first time in their long life together, he says, they are
completely entwined, entirely symbiotic. It is a sensation he
relishes.
     
"Every day, we are physically closer," Bayley writes in "Elegy for
Iris. "And Iris's little 'mouse cry,' as I think of it, signifying
loneliness in the next room, the wish to be back beside me, seems less
and less forlorn, more simple, more natural. She is not sailing into
the dark. The voyage is over, and under the dark escort of
Alzheimer's, she has arrived somewhere. So have I."
     
What does he mean? He tries to explain, as a visitor gets up to leave
and is rewarded by the sudden, sweet flash of a smile across Murdoch's
face and a delighted mumble during a goodbye embrace. "You feel that
they can't do anything else to you, so to speak," he explained. "It's
a loss of fear."
