 How To Write a Term Paper.
 
 1. Sit in a straight, comfortable chair in a well lighted place with
 plenty of freshly sharpened pencils.
 
 2. Read over the assignment carefully, to make certain you understand
 it.
 
 3. Walk down to the vending machines and buy some coffee to help you
 concentrate.
 
 4. Stop off at another floor on the way back and visit with your
 friend from class. If your friend hasn't started the paper yet
 either, you can both walk to McDonald's and buy a hamburger to help
 you concentrate. If your friend shows you his paper, typed,
 double-spaced, and bound in one of those irritating see-thru plastic
 folders, drop him.
 
 5. When you get back to your room, sit in a straight, comfortable
 chair in a clean, well lighted place with plenty of freshly sharpened
 pencils.
 
 6. Read over the assignment again to make absolutely certain you
 understand it.
 
 7. Check your e-mail; reply to everyone who sent you letters.
 
 8. You know, you haven't written to that kid you met at camp since
 fourth grade... You'd better write that letter now and get it out of
 the way so you can concentrate.
 
 9. Go look at your teeth in the bathroom mirror.
 
 10. Listen to one side of your favorite tape and that's it, I mean
 it, as soon as it's over you are going to start that paper.
 
 11. Listen to the other side.
 
 12. Check your e-mail again.
 
 13. Rearrange all of your CDs into alphabetical order.
                                                   
 14. Phone your friend on the other floor and ask if he's started
 writing yet. Exchange derogatory remarks about your teacher, the
 course, the university, the world at large.
 
 15. Sit in a straight, comfortable chair in a clean, well lighted
 place with plenty of freshly sharpened pencils.
 
 16. Read over the assignment again; roll the words across your
 tongue; savor its special flavor.
 
 17. Check your e-mail to make sure no-one sent you any urgent
 messages since the last time you checked.
 
 18. Check the newspaper listings to make sure you aren't missing
 something truly worthwhile on TV. NOTE: When you have a paper due in
 less than 12 hours, anything on TV from Masterpiece Theater to Sgt.
 Preston of the Yukon is truly worthwhile, with these exceptions: +Pro
 Bowler's Tour +any movie starring Don Ameche +Star Trek
 
 19. Catch the last hour of Soul Brother of Kung Fu on channel 26.
 
 20. Phone your friend on the third floor to see if he was watching. 
 Discuss the finer points of the plot.
 
 21. Go look at your tongue in the bathroom mirror.
 
 22. Look through your roommate's book of pictures from home. Ask who
 everyone is.
 
 23. Sit down and do some serious thinking about your plans for the
 future.
 
 24. Open your door and check to see if there are any mysterious,
 trench-coated strangers lurking in the hall.
 
 25. Sit in a straight, comfortable chair in a clean, well lighted
 place with plenty of freshly sharpened pencils.
 
 26. Read over the assignment one more time, just for the heck of it.
 
 27. Check your e-mail.
 
 28. Scoot your chair across the room to the window and watch the
 sunrise.
 
 29. Lie face down on the floor and moan.
 
 30. Leap up and write the paper.
 
 31. Type the paper.
