   Winners and honorable mentions from a contest sponsored by the 
   Washington Post in which participants were asked to tell 
   Gen-Xer's how much harder they had it in the old days.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
   Second Runner-Up:
 
   In my day, we couldn't afford shoes, so we went barefoot. In the 
   winter we had to wrap our feet with barbed wire for traction.
   (Bill Flavin, Alexandria)
  
   First Runner-Up:
 
   In my day we didn't have MTV or in-line skates, or any of that 
   stuff. No, it was 45's and regular old metal-wheeled roller skates, 
   and the 45's always skipped, so to get them to play right you'd 
   weigh the needle down with something like quarters, which we never 
   had because our allowances were way too small, so we'd use our skate 
   keys instead and end up forgetting they were taped to the record 
   player arm so that we couldn't adjust our skates, which didn't 
   really matter because those crummy metal wheels would kill you if 
   you hit a pebble anyway, and in those days roads had real pebbles 
   on them, not like today.
   (Russell Beland, Springfield)
  
   And the winner of the velour bicentennial poster:
 
   In my day, we didn't have no rocks. We had to go down to the creek
   and wash our clothes by beating them with our heads. 
   (Barry Blyveis, Columbia)
  
   Honorable Mentions:
 
   In my day, we didn't have dogs or cats. All I had was Silver Beauty, 
   my beloved paper clip. 
   (Jennifer Hart, Arlington)
  
   When I was your age, we didn't have fake doggie-do. We only had real 
   doggie-do, and no one thought it was a bit funny. 
   (Brendan Bassett, Columbia)
  
   Back in the 1970's we didn't have the space shuttle to get all excited 
   about. We had to settle for men walking on the crummy moon.
   (Russell Beland, Springfield)
  
   In my day, we didn't have days. There was only time for work, time for
   prayer and time for sleep. The sheriff would go around and tell    
   everyone when to change. 
   (Elden Carnahan, Laurel)
  
   In my day, people could only dream of hitchhiking a ride on a comet. 
   (David Ronka, Charlottesville)
  
   In my day, we didn't have fancy health-food restaurants. Every day we
   ate lots of easily recognizable animal parts, along with potatoes 
   drenched in melted fat from those animals. And we're all as strong as
   AAGGKK-GAAK Urrgh. Thud. 
   (Tom Witte, Gaithersburg) 
  
   In my day, we didn't have hand-held calculators. We had to do addition 
   on our fingers. To subtract, we had to have some fingers amputated.
   (Jon Patrick Smith, Washington)
  
   In my day, we didn't get that disembodied, slightly ticked-off voice 
   saying 'Doors closing.' We got on the train, the doors closed, and
   if your hand was sticking out it scraped along the tunnel all the way 
   to the Silver Spring station and it was a bloody stump at the end. But 
   the base fare was only a dollar. 
   (Russell Beland, Springfield)
  
   In my day, we didn't have water. We had to smash together our own 
   hydrogen and oxygen atoms. 
   (Diana Hugue, Bowie)
  
   In my day, we didn't have Strom Thurmond. Oh, wait. Yes we did. 
   (Peg Sheeran, Vienna)
  
   Kids today think the world revolves around them. In my day, the sun 
   revolved around the world, and the world was perched on the back
   of a giant tortoise. 
   (Jonathan Paul, Garrett Park) 
  
   In my day, we wore our pants up around our armpits. Monstrous wedgies, 
   but we looked snappy. 
   (Bruce Evans, Washington)
  
   Back in my day, '60 Minutes' wasn't just a bunch of gray-haired 
   liberal 80-year-old guys. It was a bunch of gray-haired liberal 
   60-year-old guys. 
   (Russell Beland, Springfield, & Jerry Pannullo, Kensington)
  
   In my day, we didn't have virtual reality. If a one-eyed razorback 
   barbarian warrior was chasing you with an axe, you just had to hope 
   you could outrun him. 
   (Sarah M. Wolford, Hanover)
