                                THE FATHER'S EYES


	Bob Richards, the former pole-vault champion, shares a moving story 
about a skinny young boy who loved football with all his heart.
     Practice after practice, he eagerly gave everything he had. But being
half the size of the other boys, he got absolutely nowhere.  At all the 
games, this hopeful athlete sat on the bench and hardly ever played.
     This teenager lived alone with his father, and the two of them had a
very special relationship.  Even though the son was always on the bench,
his father was always in the stands cheering.  He never missed a game.
     This young man was still the smallest of the class when he entered 
high school.  But his father continued to encourage him but also made it 
very clear that he did not have to play football if he didn't want to.  
But the young man loved football and decided to hang in there.  He was 
determined to try his best at every practice, and perhaps he'd get to 
play when he became a senior.  All through high school he never missed a 
practice nor a game but remained a bench-warmer all four years.  His 
faithful father was always in the stands, always with words of 
encouragement for him.
     When the young man went to college, he decided to try out for the
football team as a "walk-in."  Everyone was sure he could never make the 
cut, but he did.  The coach admitted that he kept him on the roster 
because he always puts his heart and soul to every practice, and at the 
same time, provided the other members with the spirit and hustle they 
badly needed.
     The news that he had survived the cut thrilled him so much that he 
rushed to the nearest phone and called his father.  His father shared his 
excitement and was sent season tickets for all the  college games.
     This persistent young athlete never missed practice during his four 
years at college, but he never got to play in a game.  It was the end of 
his senior football season, and as he trotted onto the practice field 
shortly before the big playoff game, the coach met him with a telegram.  
The young man read the telegram and he became deathly silent.  Swallowing 
hard, he mumbled to the coach, "My father died this morning.  Is it all 
right if I miss practice today?"   The coach put his arm gently around 
his shoulder and said,  "Take the rest of the week off, son.  And don't 
even plan to come back to the game on Saturday."
    Saturday arrived, and the game was not going well.  In the third
quarter, when the team was ten points behind, a silent young man quietly 
slipped into the empty locker room and put on his football gear.  As he 
ran onto the sidelines, the coach and his players were astounded to see 
their faithful teammate back so soon.
   "Coach, please let me play.  I've just got to play today," said the 
young man.  The coach pretended not to hear him. There  was no way he 
wanted his worst player in this close playoff game. But the young man
persisted, and finally feeling sorry for the kid, the coach gave in.
"All right," he said.  "You can go in."
    Before long, the coach, the players and everyone in the stands could 
not believe their eyes.  This little unknown, who had never played before 
was doing everything right.  The opposing team could not stop him.  He 
ran, he passed, blocked, and tackled like a star.  His team began to 
triumph.  The score was soon tied.  In the closing seconds of the game, 
this kid intercepted a pass and ran all the way for the winning touchdown.
     The fans broke loose.  His teammates hoisted him onto their 
shoulders.  Such cheering you never heard.  Finally, after the stands had 
emptied and the team had showered and left the locker room, the coach
noticed that this young man was sitting quietly in the corner all alone.  
The coach came to him and said,  "Kid, I can't believe it.  You were 
fantastic!  Tell me what got into you?  How did you do it?"
     He looked at the coach, with tears in his eyes, and said, "Well, you 
knew my dad died, but did you know that my dad was blind?"
     The young man swallowed hard and forced a smile,  "Dad came to all 
my games, but today was the first time he could see me play, and I wanted 
to show him I could do it!"

     ----------------------------

	Like this boy's father, God is faithful to always be there for us. God
is watching us right now, always encouraging, always loving, never leaving us.
I hope that each one of us will have the same spirit to make our Father proud
as did this boy to make his father proud. Know that God is there with us to
help us through the hard times, and there also to be with us through the good.
So whether you get to play or not, give God all you've got, and He will bless
you. Stay strong in the Lord, and give God all you've got this week!

						     -Thomas Owen
