If you are offended by "colorful" language, please don't read this.
Thanks.
 
 Fuck-You: An Essay
 
 Perhaps one of the most interesting and colourful words in the English
 language is the word "fuck". It is one magical word, which just by its
 sound can describe pain, pleasure, love and hate. In dictation, "fuck"
 falls into many grammatical categories. It can be used as a verb, both
 transitive (John fucked Mary) and intransitive (Mary was fucked by
 John). It can be an active verb, (John really gives a good fuck) or an
 adverb (Mary is fucking interested in John). Consider its use as a
 noun (Mary is a terrific fuck). Consider its use as an adjective (Mary
 is fucking beautiful). As you can see, there are very few words with
 the versatility of "fuck". Besides its sexual connotations, this
 incredible word can be used to describe many situations:
 
 Greetings: "How the fuck are you?"
 
 Fraud: "I got fucked by the car dealer."
 
 Dismay: "Oh, fuck it!"
 
 Trouble: "Well, I guess I'm fucked now."
 
 Aggression: "Fuck you!"
 
 Disgust: "Fuck me."
 
 Confusion: "What the fuck..."
 
 Difficulty: "I don't understand this fucking business."
 
 Despair: "Fucked again."
 
 Incompetance: "He fucks up everything."
 
 Displeasure: "What the fuck is going on here?"
 
 Lost: "Where the fuck are we?"
 
 Disbelief: "Unfuckingbelievable."
 
 Retaliation: "Up your fucking ass."
 
 It can be used as an anatomical description: "He's a fucking asshole."
 
 It can be used to tell time: "Its five fucking thirty."
 
 It can be used in business: "How did I wind up in this fucking job?"
 
 It can be maternal, as in "Motherfucker."
 
 It can be political: "Fuck Tip O'Neill"
 
 Never forget General Custer's last words: "Where did all thes fucking
 Indians come from?"
 
 Also remember the famous last words of the Mayor of Hiroshima:
 "What the fuck was that?"
 
 Last, but not least, the immortal words of the Captain of the Titanic,
 who said, "Where is all this fucking water coming from?"
 
 The mind boggles at the many creative uses of the word. How can anyone
 be offended when you say "fuck"? Use it frequently in your daily
 speech. It will impress others with your fluency of English and add to
 your prestige.
 
 Today..Say to Someone.."Fuck-You"!
