                          Rules To Be A Man

            100 ways to keep your Testosterone flowing

1   Don't call, ever.
2   If you don't like a girl, don't tell her. It's more fun to let her figure
    it out by herself.
3   Lie.
4   Name your penis. Be sure it is something narcissistic and unoriginal, such
    as "spike"
5   If you lose something that belongs to someone else, tell them you
    mailed it to them.
6   Here's a good pickup line, "My girlfiend's pregnant, will you go out
    with me?
7   Drink Vernors.
8   Play with yourself. Talk about it.
9   Be as ambiguous as possible. If you don't want to answer, a nice
    grunt will do.
10  Always remember: You are a man. Therefore, no matter what, it isn't your
    fault.
11  Lie.
12  Girls find it attractive if a man has had more women than baths.
13  Never ask for help.  Even if you really, really need help- don't ask.
    People will think you have no penis.
14  Women like it when you ignore them.  It arouses them.
15  Vanity is the most important trait for a man to have.  Whenever you pass
    a reflective surface, check you hair, clothing, etc.
16  If you don't like a girl, but can't think of a good enough reason why,
    just come up with trite, meaningless explanations like, "I don't know. I  
    just don't like her personality."
17  If, GOD FORBID, you have to talk to a girl on the phone, use only
    monosyllabic words and noises. Bodily noises are permissible.
18  TWO WORDS:  Hack and spit.
19  Everyone finds a man more attractive if he can write his name with
    urine.
20  One sure way to make a girl like you is to go after her best friend.  She
    will then see what she's missing and love you for not giving up on her.
21  Tell her you will call. Then, refer back to rule #1.
22  Say things like "Wha...?"
23  Don't wear matching clothes. People will think your girlfriend picked it
    out, and it will cramp your style on picking up chicks.
24  Lie.
25  Deny everthing. Everything.
26  Good break up line, "It's not you, it's me."
27  If you like a girl, tell all your female friends about her.  Because if
    any of your female friends like you, they'll really want to know.
28  Don't have a clue.
29  If you get a clue, pretend you didn't and disregard it.
30  No means yes.
31  Yes means no.
32  If you don't get sex whenever you want, your balls will shrivel. Enforce
    this rule at all times.
33  If anyone asks, you have had sex in all possible positions and locations.
    Improvise.
34  Much like an orgasm signifies the end of a sexual peak, sex often
    signifies the end of a relationship.
35  Feelings?  What feelings?
36  Tell this to your girl before you have sex, "Don't worry.  If you don't
    have an orgasm, you won't get pregnant."
37  Life is one big competition.  If someone is better than you at anything,
    either pretend it's not true or kick some ass.
38  Gays are an unacceptable part of our society.  Take it upon yourself to
    personally irradicate all of them from the planet.
39  DO NOT make decisions about relationships.  If you are backed into a
    corner and must make a decision, stall.  If you still must come up with an
    answer, leave yourself a loophole for escape.  Example:
         Question:  "Honey, will you take me out for a romantic dinner?"
         Answer:  "Yes, if you can guess how many sperm I produce each day."
40  Every sentence that anyone says can be contorted to have sexual meaning.
41  At any given opportunity, point out how things look like various
    genitalia.
    If, by chance, you have Play-Doh, make sure you make an exact replica of
    your penis.  Measure to make sure it's right.
42  Lie.
43  "Love" is not in your vocabulary. don't even think about saying it.
44  A general rule: If whatever you're doing does not satisfy you completely
    in 5 minutes, it's really not worth it.
45  Diss your girlfirend. Beg and plead until you get her back. Diss her
    again. Repeat cycle.
46  Lie.
47  ALWAYS apologize. NEVER mean it.
48  If you hurt someone, pretend you care. Don't.
49  Try to have a good memory, but it's OK if you forget trivial things. You
    know, like your girlfriend's b-day and eye color.
50  Ignorance solves problems. If you can't see them, they can't see you.
51  It is never your duty to take responsibility for your actions.
52  Create new words and phrases to describe genetalia, sex, semen, etc.
53  Complain about not getting any mail.  When people FINALLY feel sorry
    or you and send you mail, ignore it and continue complaining.
54  Lie.
55  Play with your food only if you are in a public place with people you
    don't know.
56  Play with your penis only if you are in a public place with people you
    don't know.
57  If people express extreme disgust at whatever you are doing, DON'T STOP!
    This is the desired reaction.
58  You are NOT a virgin.  Ever.  Males are born without virginity.
59  You are male, therefore you are superior.
60  Agenda for a boring evening:  Get beer.  Drink beer.  Play with yourself.
    Have sex.  Drink more beer.  Pass out.
61  Females do not care what you do to them as long as they get to please
    you.
62  Don't ever notice anything.
63  If you're going out with someone but you love someone else, don't say
    anything.  Wait until the girl you are going out with falls in love with
    YOU, and then tell her.
64  Basic fundamental rule of dating: Quantity, not quality.
65  Basic fundamental rule of sex: Quantity IS quality.
66  Lie.
67  If you cheat on a girl, but no one finds out, then technically you've
    done nothing wrong.
68  Crying is not manly. Then again, if you are a man, what do you have to
    cry about, anyway?
69  If the question begins with "why," the answer is "I don't know."
70  Women are your napkins. Use them, and throw them away.
71  Remember, Every virgin girl is saving herself for YOU.
72  If you ever find yourself in a position where you have been proven wrong,
    blame others.  Come up with creative and believable excuses why they are
    at fault- not you.
73  Don't ever let anyone say "I told you so."  If you hear this phrase and
    it didn't come out of your mouth, go ballistic.
74  If your woman makes you go shopping with her, drive around until a
    parking spot right near the door opens up.  If this takes hours, so be 
    it. You will have the coveted "door spot" and others will worship your 
    skills.
75  Keep track of how many seconds in your life you have thought about sex.
    Compare with others.
76  Other peoples' pain is strictly for your amusement.  Laugh long and loud.
77  Lie.
78  General Rule:  Different is BAD.
79  If anyone asks you for a favor-  a) make a big deal about how hard it is
    for you to do it,  b) remind them of this huge favor you've done for them
    at least every 5 minutes for the rest of their life.
80  Each penny you save will be worth at least a dollar in the long run.
81  If you do something really mean to a girl, and she doesn't want to talk
    to you, pretend nothing happened. If she still doesn't talk to you, 
    casually ask, "is something wrong?"
82  Three words: Let's be friends. Translation: I never want to speak to you
    again, but it's bad for my nice-guy image if you are mad at me, so I'll
    pretend I want to be your friend.
83  Lie.
84  If you're on a date, and there is a lull in the conversation, tell the
    girl how many different dorms you've been laid in.
85  When you tell a girl about your past, it's good to say, "God, I was such
    a pimp back then."
86  Here's a good trick. Tell a girl that you're going to leave and when you
    come back, you want her naked, sprawled on the bed.  Leave,and go into
    her dad's room and tell him he should go check on his daughter. Then  
    drive like hell. (true story.)
87  If a girl breaks up with you because you're in love with someone else,
    she has no right to be upset. Because, you know, SHE's the one who wanted
    to end the relationship.
88  The best sex position is you, lying face up... and twenty girls on top.
89  Practice your blank stare.
90  Spend your spare time thinking of excuses and shove them up your ass.
    Then, whenever you need one, you can pull it out of your ass.
91  If you ever forced to show emotion, just pick random emotions like rage
    and lust and insanity and display them at random, inconvenient times.  You
    don't be asked to do it again.
92  If you are asked to do something you REALLY DON'T want to do, first try
    your manly best to get out of it.  If that doesn't work, go
    ahead and do what you were asked to do, but complain that you
    don't know how to do it and continuously ask questions on how
    to do each little part. If no one rushes in to do it for you
    YET, finish the job in the most half-assed way you possibly
    can and then say, "SEE??  I TOLD you I couldn't do it."
    Eventually, people will stop asking you to do things.
93  Work out day and night to make your body even more beautiful than it
    already is.  When people ask if you've been working out, say
    things like, "No, baby, I was BORN like this!"
94  Do not listen to "pussy music" such as Erasure, Color Me Badd, or Oldies.
95  Beer.  Then more beer.
96  Scratch your balls.  See if you can embarrass people.
97  One word:  FOOTBALL!
98  Real men beat up others who are inferior.  I mean, we don't want the
    inferior of the species to get to reproduce ever, do we???
99  Diss your girl friends for an occasional night or 5 out with "The Gang".
100 LIE.
 
						-Michael S. Borgwardt
