		A Variation on "Footprints"

 "Now imagine you and the Lord Jesus walking down the road together.
For much of the way, the Lord's footprints go along steadily, consistently,
rarely varying the pace. But your prints are a disorganized stream of
zigzags, starts, stops, turnarounds, circles, departures and returns.

 For much of the way it seems to go like this. But gradually, your
footprints come more in line with the Lord's, soon paralleling His
consistently. You and Jesus are walking as true friends.

 This seems perfect, but then an interesting thing happens: your
footprints that once etched the sand next to the Master's are now walking
precisely in His steps. Inside His larger footprints is the small
'sandprint', safely enclosed. You and Jesus are becoming one.

 This goes on for many miles. But gradually you notice another
change. The footprint inside the larger footprint seems to grow larger.
Eventually it disappears altogether. There is only one set of footprints.
They have become one.

 Again, this goes on for a long time. But then something awful
happens. The second set of footprints is back. And this time it seems
even worse. Zigzags all over the place. Stops. Starts. Deep gashes in the
sand. A veritable mess of prints.

 You're amazed and shocked. But this is the end of your dream. Now
you speak. 'Lord, I understand the first scene with the zigzags and fits
and starts and so on. I was a new Christian, just learning. But You
walked on through the storm and helped me learn to walk with you.'

 'That is correct.'

 'Yes, and when the smaller footprints were inside of Yours, I was
actually learning to walk in Your steps. I followed You very closely.'

 'Very good. You have understood everything so far.'

 'Then the smaller footprints grew and eventually filled in with
Yours. I suppose that I was actually growing so much that I was becoming
like you in every way.'

 'Precisely.'

 'But this is my question.. Lord.. Was there a regression or
something? The footprints went back to two, and this time it was worse
than the first.'

 The Lord smiles, then laughs. 'You didn't know?' He says. 'That
was when we danced'."
