Dr. Hood,
        This is the response that I had to the MTBI class that you
taught. I was hoping that you would read it and offer an comments that
you might have. If you haven't sufficient time I will understand.

                                        -Will Holcomb

P.S. The qoute for Eric Blair (George Orwell) in the book is wrong.
     It goes: "All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal
     than others." George Orwell "Animal Farm" The quote is putting
     pigs as better than the other animals, thus the quote "All pigs
     is equal, but some pigs is more equal than others" dosen't make
     much sense. Unless, this is some type of statement that assumes
     that the reader knows the correct statement, and the misquote is
     a statement in itself. Reguardless, I thought that I would let
     you know.

<Begin Letter ot Dr. Stewart>

This is my response to the MTBI test and its implications. First, I
was predicted (said) to be a INFJ, but given my scores (EI=-5, SN=-47,
TF=-1, JP=5) I am truly a XNXX. This is more fitting to my personal
estimation of my persona. I predicted a INTJ, but this is the person
that I a and not my true self. I beleive my true self is an ENXX. I
have written poetry, stories, and thesi on just who I am, but I still
do not know. As you might remember from my autobiography, I went
through some very trying times during Jr. High that forced me out of
society. Rumors as to my sexuality got me ostracised quickly and
efficiently. I had no friends and I was forced to turn in towards
myself. That is past, and yet it is not. When I talk of "emotional
scars" I see myself as sounding weak and pathetic; The victim that I
once was and never want to be again. That does not make them go away.
I have found that even though satisfaction with my state of being is a
state of mind, deceiving myself mentaly is not an effective way to
bring it about. People frighten me very much, but I love being wiht
them. It has to do with building walls. When I was in my (severely)
troubled times, I built up "walls" to keep the world out. I told
myself that I didn't need them, and that I was better off. Still, I
longed to be a part of the group. I loved to stand in the limelight
and take all of the attention, but always when I prepared to step
forward and seperate myself from the crowd I could not. To do so I
would need to break down the walls and open myself up to attack. That
was the biggest problem with walls; they shut out all of the joy with
the pain. So I am an "I", but that is not my true self. I enjoy
interacting with people; I don't simply beleive that I am an E because
I long to be a part of the group. I realize the fundamental need in
all creatures to be with others of thier kind. My longing is different
than the need for a sense of community. In my true self there are two
definite qualities "E" is one of them. The other came out strongly on
the MBTI. Stronger than I would have wished, for it indicates that I
am out of balance, but I will work on that. That quality is "N."
Wherein extroversion and introversion are easy to define (not really,
but on a surface level they can appear so); sensing and intuition are
more abstract. I am surprised at the 92% on the "N" portion of my
test. I often enjoy detail work to the point of anal-retentiveness. I
know pi to 3.14159265, acceleration due to gravity 9.80665 m/s, my
parents creditcard # 5_2_ 1_0_ 0_3_ 9_0_ (I won't fill in the blanks
for obvious reasons,) and all sorts of useless trivia, but I can
relate to not being able to understand until I have the "big picture."
For example, I am trying to get some grasp on spirituality. I have
quite a few ideas onreligon, but I am not sure of the validity of any
of them. To this end I have been trying to gather information from
different areas; honestly in the hopes of poking logical holes in my
arguments. For if I eliminate all that is not impossible; that which
is left, however improbable, is the truth (that sounds like a quote,it
might be some version of something by A.C. Doyle.) I do not enjoy
living in indecision, and my research has taken on many forms (an
e-mail question on "Do Jews go to heaven?" to you Dr. for one.) One
problem that I am having is my roommate. Not that he is not a
religious man; he is a devout Pentacostal (if he thumps me with his
Bible any harder I'll have bruises), but the way that he approaces his
spirituality. We meet in his church (he has keys) every morning and
worship together. His entire religion is based on the Bible, no
questions asked, so all that we have been doing is reading photocopies
of a book that lists verses of the Bible on a specific subject, and
writing down all of the verses that relate to a subject. Exe. Hold up
hands - Matt 4:45, Ex. 34:6, ... Then at night he saw me reading my
Bible, and he wanted to read with me. I was reluctant because of the
speed that I like to read at, but agreed because "Who knows, maybe
this is a better way of doing it?" He likes to memorize verses though,
which is not something that helps my understanding in anyway. From
being around him, I would saw that he is "ISXJ," but this is a good
example of why I beleive that, while I do have some "S" qualities, "N"
is dominant in my true self. It also helps bring me to my final though
on the class. My roommate is, as I said, a strict Bible
Fundamentalist. I really don't know. God's domain is primarily our
spiritual nature, and how that interacts with our physical nature. So,
should not the Bible deal also with our spiritual sides. I used to
beleive this very strongly, and I looked in to all that I read to find
how it could apply to the spiritual, but for N.(my roommate) this is
questioning the Word and thus blasphemy. This made me wonder as to
what I was supposed to do? If I was supposed to apply God's gift of
thinking to the Bible wouldn't that surface as the desire to do so?
and if Satan wanted to lead me astray wouldn't having me find
unrichous callings in the Bible an excellent way of doing so? and
wouldn't Satan make me desire to think on the Bible. So I was faced
with a feeling and if I acted on it depended on where it came from,
and I could not know. I am excellent at rationalization, which would
be a great help for whatever reason I was thinking on the Bible. Be it
to find the real truth for me hidden in there, or to lead myself
astray. So, all that I have reached for all of my thought is a state
of total confusion. I am reading the Bible, and I hope I see the
truth. For if my reasoning is right then to gain a better
understanting of God I should also read the texts of other major
monotheistic religions, but that is certainly blasphemy in N.'s book.
(I'll figure it out; I hope!)Reguardless, I saw some of my dilema in
Perry's model. If I follow it N. is in stage #1 "The Word is right, no
questions asked" Do you beleive that is the correct way of doing
things? Also, to follow Perry's model for my situation causes it to
colapse. In order for me to realize the validity of N.'s argument
comes with a requirement that I follow. I do not follow now, because I
do not fully understand it's basis, and if I see that it has a solid
Biblical basis then as a Christian I am caled to follow. Thus, the
only way for me to be open to everyone's ideas is to exclude his. I
cannot realize the validity of his statement, and in good faith
continue to be open to others. The two are mutualy exclusive and the
model colapses. I would appreciate any thoughts that you have
what so ever.

                                -Will Holcomb
<End Letter to Dr. Stewart>