INVENTORY OF THE NOW TIME IN YOUR LIFE....
Gather some notebook paper, a couple of pens, and if you have it, several
sheets of unlined white paper. Plan to do this work in a quiet place where
you can reflect and work undisturbed for an hour or so.  Do not think hard
about the questions.  Write down what pops into your head.  You can go back
and think about your answers later.  You can do the written parts of ths
inventory on your computer if you are more comfortable doing that. [i would
prefer that you do it on computer and post it to your bbs and send me a
copy for your mentor archives]

Anchor the Present
1.  First let your mind wander back over over your
life.... events and epochs in your life had their own beginnings and
middles and ends...  as your  life flows into this present time in
your life, sense the time you are in now....this now time in your life
had its beginning but it has not come to an end.... it is an open
time, with many possibilities....but many rivers run into this now
time from your past. 
     When you are ready, write out a focusing statement about this now time
in your life, this time that has its beginning but is not yet finished....
for some people it will be coming to TTU; for others, connecting with
special people; for others, making changes in vocational choices.... Begin
the focusing statement with: "It is a time when....." and finish the
sentence.

2.  List some of the people  who are important in this now time in your life.
     After you have listed them, go back and let images and feelings
associated with each one of them come up in your mind.  Write down one or
two adjectives that you associate with each person.
     Did you list some people who have had 'negative' influences on your
life?  Who have hurt you or angered you?  What adjectives can you place by
their names?

3.  List projects that are important to you in this now time in your life.

4.  List events that have been important in this now time....

5.  Listen to your body.... What does it have to say to you     about this
now time in your life?

6.   What emotional states are dominant for you in this now  time?             

7.  What  Groups are important to you now...- university, social, church

8.   What dreams are recurring in this now time? or waht dreams do you
remember?  just write a few words to remind yourself of what they are...
don't try to analyze them.

9.  What are the most important _positive values_ to you now?

    What are the most important _negative values_ to you now?

10. Make a statement about your _religious_ position now.

11. What are the most _positive things_ you can say about yourself now?

12. What are the most _negative things_ you can say about yourself now?

13. What words come to mind that you associate with the _darkest part_
    of you,  your shadow self?

    What image comes to mind?

    What strengths does your shadow have to offer?

14. What are you most afraid of?

15. What ecstasies have been most important to you?  What peak experiences?

16. What wisdom do you have to offer now?  to the world?  to yourself?

17. What short term goals do you have for your future?

18. What long term goals?

19. What are your major concerns, issues, and problems in this NOW time?

    What is the payoff?  What do you get out of it?

20. Draw a picture of yourself with your non-dominant hand. [If you are
right-handed, draw a picture of yourself with your left hand. Use plain
white paper if you have it.]

21. Draw a yen/yang symbol  [ a circle with a capital S imbedded throughh the middle of it] and put in one side a symbol of your dark self and on the other side, a symbol of your light side.


                   Fantasy Time


1.  If there were no constraints, either moral or financial, what would
    you do with your life?

2.  What person that you don't know well or not at all, dead or alive, 
    would you like to get to know?

3.  What project would you like to undertake now if there were no constraints?

4.  What event would you like to have happen now if you could have anything
     happen that you like?

5.  If you could build your ideal religion, what would you want as tenants
or principles of it?  would it be ideal for everyone?  what would you like
best about it?

6.  What would you like your body to be and do?

7.  What do you wish that you had learned?

8.  What would you like your strengths and talents to be?
