It takes guts to say "Jesus"
 
This is a true story of something that happened just a few years ago
at USC. There was a professor of philosophy there who was a deeply
committed atheist. His primary goal for one required class was to
spend the entire semester attempting to prove that God couldn't exist.
His students were always afraid to argue with him because of his
impeccable logic. For twenty years he had taught this class and no one
had ever had the courage to go against him. Sure, some had argued in
class at times, but no one had ever *really gone against him* (you'll
see what I mean later). Nobody would go against him because he had a
reputation. At the end of every semester, on the last day, he would
say to the class of 300 students, "If there is anyone here who still
believes in God, stand up!" In twenty years, nobody ever stood up.
They knew what he was going to do next. He would say, "Because anyone
who believes in God is a fool. If God existed, he could stop this
piece of chalk from hitting the ground and breaking. Such a simple
task to prove he is God, and yet he can't do it." And every year he
would drop the chalk onto the tile floor of the classroom and it could
shatter into a hundred pieces. All of the students could do nothing
but stop and stare. Most of the students were convinced that God
couldn't exist. Certainly, a number of Christians had slipped through,
but for 20 years they had been too afraid to stand up.

Well, a few years ago there was a freshman who happened to get
enrolled in the class. He was a Christian, and had heard the stories
about this professor. He had to take the class because it was one of
the required classes for his major. And he was afraid. But for three
months that semester, he prayed every morning that he would have the
courage to stand up no matter what the professor said or what the
class thought. Nothing they said or did could ever shatter his faith,
he hoped. Finally, the day came. The professor said, "If there is
anyone here who still believes in God, stand up!" The professor, and
the class of 300 people looked at him, shocked, as he stood up at the
back of the room. The professor shouted, "YOU FOOL! If nothing I have
said all semester has convinced you that God doesn't exist, then you
are a fool! If God existed, he could keep this piece of chalk from
breaking when it hit the ground!" He proceeded to drop the chalk, but
as he did, it slipped out of his fingers, off his shirt cuff, onto the
pleats of his pants, down his leg, and off his shoe. And as it hit the
ground, it simply rolled away, unbroken. The professor's jaw dropped
as he stared at the chalk. He looked up at the young man and then ran
out of the lecture hall.  The young man who had stood up proceeded to
walk to the front of the room and share his faith in Jesus for the
next half hour. 300 students stayed and listened as he told of God's
love for them and of his power through Jesus.

"Yet to all who received HIM, to those who believed in HIS name, HE gave
the right to become children of God - children born not of natural
descent, nor of human decision or a husband's will, but born of GOD."

"But HE knows the way that I take, when HE has tested me, I will come
forth as gold." Job 23:10


(Passed from one Christian to others as a message of encouragement and
hope.)
