  Here's a few reasons why guys like girls:
   
  1. They will always smell good even if its just shampoo.
  
  2. The way their heads always find the right spot on our shoulder.
  
  3. How cute they look when they sleep.
  
  4. the ease in which they fit into our arms.
  
  5. the way they kiss you and all of a sudden everything is right in the
     world.
  
  6. How cute they are when they eat.
  
  7. The way they take hours to get dressed but in the end it makes it all
     worth while.
  
  8. because they are always warm even when its minus 30 out side.
  
  9. the way they look good no matter what they wear.
  
 10. the way they fish for compliments even though you both know that you
     think she's the most beautiful thing on this earth.
  
 11. How cute they are when they argue.
  
 12. the way her hand always finds yours.
  
 13. the way they smile.
  
 14. the way you feel when you see their name on the call display after you
     just had a big fight.
  
 15. the way she says "lets not fight anymore" even though you know that an
     hour later....
  
 16. the way they kiss you when you do something nice for them.
  
 17. The way they kiss you when you say "I love you'.
  
 18. actually... just the way they kiss you...
  
 19. the way they fall into your arms when they cry.
  
 20. then the way they apologize for crying over something that silly. 
  
 21. The way they hit you and expect it to hurt.
  
 22. then the way they apologize when it does hurt ..(even though we don't
     admit it!)
  
 23. the way they say "I miss you".
  
 24. the way you miss them.
  
 25. the way their tears make you want to change the world so that it doesn't
    hurt her anymore.....Yet regardless if you love them, hate them, wish they
    would die or know that you would die without them... it matters not.  Because
    once in your life, whatever they were to the world they become everything to
    you. When you look them in the eyes, traveling to the depths of their souls
    and you say a million things without trace of a sound, you know that your own
    life is inevitable consumed within the rhythmic beatings of  her very heart.
  
  
  We love them for a million reasons, No paper would do it justice. It is a
 thing not of the mind but of the heart.  A feeling.  Only felt.
