form_name: final questionnaire
uid: 71
LikeMost: Orchestration map - The ability to see the terrain map, location of all robots, planned paths of robots, and potential destination sites is extremely useful.

The ability to take control of any robot instantaneously - Some tasks are more easily accomplished through direct control.

The robot\'s names.
LikeLeast: The responsiveness and controlabilty of the robots to direct command through keyboard or mouse. The speed of rotation was very slow and slowed down tasks. It was easy to over/under steer thus difficult to accurately control the robot.

Constant switching between Orchestration and Manipulation is both very necessary/useful and frustrating. Having access to both sets of information might be more better.

The overlaid map in Manipulation mode was distracting and made it difficult to visually search for bombs and had to be turned off. The overlay should not hinder the camera view and should be faint enough to fade out of sight when not needed.

Comments: The robot status boxes are too far out the general area of attention to be used as notification. I had to consciously check them from time to time. 

The distance between on-screen control buttons was cumbersome and required too much mouse movement.

I tended not to switch robots in Manipulation view at all. I felt it necessary to switch to Orchestration mode. This is probably due to mental organization of functions.

An indication of a robot\'s field of view on the Orchestration map might be useful.

Audible feedback would help for notification of task completion.

There is no record of what tasks have been completed. So the user is forced to say \"Did I do that already?\"

The line/point system of waypoints forces certain types of paths. The ability to define simple curved paths would eliminate the need to specify many waypoints which is the bulk of the work.

Overall, the exercise was most pleasant when there was a balance between attention required and time spent waiting for robots to finish tasks. ie Too many things going on at once as well as waiting with nothing to do is undesirable. 
