From: TTU::MTO1716      "MARK T. ORR" 21-APR-1999 00:01:18.50
To:   @MENTORALL
CC:
Subj: J:  conditionality

99-04-20
conditionality

last night I hit a shift in how I see unconditionality vs. conditionality.

In my time here I have tried to learn to be unconditional. That is
very congruous with my value of honesty. When I am conditional I am
not open to what is really there and thus I'm not dealing with
reality. However I have used this to assume that I should accept
everything that happens without stating my views on it. Maybe the best
way to say this is an example. Person Q bugs me.

The should I have is that I should be unconditional to Q and therefore
not choose to be elsewhere when Q is around. However I am not
unconditional here.

Obviously because Q annoys the (*&^ out of me. So what I have been
doing is both beating myself up for not being unconditional and being
really annoyed when Q is around. What I'm seeing now is that I can
regard Q positively and at the same time voice my preference to not
spend time with him. In one sense I am choosing to be unconditional
with myself about conditionality. This is one of those places I have
the demand to be perfect and that demand is keeping me from dealing
with the issues here.

I'm not advocating ignoring the person or the problems I have with Q, but
instead to acknowledge the truth of where I am and what is going on.

Another big part of this and really what I want to talk about is how I
choose to spend my time. Unconditionality taken to the extreme in my
head can look like abdicating responsibility such that I have no
control, or I not choose to take control, of my experience. Such and
such is happening and oh well I'm unconditional so I won't act or make
a choice. I know this is arguing the extreme but I find that sometimes
happens. Especially in regards to the people who's company I keep. Its
often, well these people are around so. What I am wanting to do is to
speak up more for what I prefer and act accordingly. I can still
regard people unconditionally (as I can) positively when I am with
them.

I guess its an empowerment of choosing my experience. Having written
this out it seems rather juvenile and banal, but it was a realization
for me at some point along the way.

Now the challenge is having the courage to speak out for what I want
and having the self-possession to accept and deal with conflicts that
arise.

Thanks for reading
Love
Mark


