We convince ourselves that life will be better after we get married.
Have a baby, then another. Then we are frustrated that the kids aren't
old enough and we'll be more content when they are.

After that we're frustrated that we have teenagers to deal with. We
will certainly be happy when they are out of that stage. We tell ourselves
that our life will be complete when our spouse gets his or her act
together, when we get a nicer car, are able to go on a nice vacation,
when we retire.

The truth is, there's no better time to be happy than right now. If
not now, when?

Your life will always be filled with challenges. It's best to admit
this to yourself and decide to be happy anyway.

One of my favorite quotes comes from Alfred D Souza. He said, "For a
long time it had seemed to me that life was about to begin - real life.
But there was always some obstacle in the way, something to be gotten
through first, some unfinished business, time still to be served, a debt
to be paid. Then life would begin. At last it dawned on me that these
obstacles were my life." This perspective has helped me to see that there
is no way to happiness.

Happiness is the way. So, treasure every moment that you have. And
treasure it more because you shared it with someone special, special
enough to spend your time...and remember that time waits for no one...

So stop waiting until you finish school, until you go back to school,
Until you lose ten pounds, until you gain ten pounds, until you have kids,
until your kids leave the house, until you start work, until you retire,
until you get married, until you get divorced, until Friday night, until
Sunday morning, until you get a new car or home, until your car or home is
paid off, until spring, until summer, until fall, until winter, until you
are off welfare, until the first or fifteenth, until your song comes on,
until you've had a drink, until you've sobered up, until you die, until
you are born again to decide that there is no better time than right now to
be
happy...Happiness is a journey, not a destination.

Work like you don't need money, Love like you've never been hurt, And
dance like no one's watching.

Safe Journey!

-Author Unknown
