From: IN%"MYSTIC-L@UCONNVM.UConn.Edu"  "Academic Discussion of Mysticism"
3-MAR-1999 15:35:44.65
To:   IN%"MYSTIC-L@UCONNVM.UConn.Edu"
CC:
Subj: Love

      In keeping with my promise to give to you here the mutterings of this
mystic, I now mutter about love:

      Love is the feeling of the reality of unity made possible by the
illusion of duality.

      The pretense of lover and beloved gives rise to the feeling of
love, because the truth of unity, which can not be totally concealed,
arises and reveals itself in the attraction that the apparent part
feels for the illsory other part.

      While the lover pretends that the beloved is other, the ground
of their being, which is one, insists at the level of the emotions,
and the thought arises that we are one.

      Fear is the temporary condition in which the illusion of
separation becomes so strong that the feeling of unity is completely
suppressed. Other seems to threaten self and the realization of the
truth lies submerged.

      Self appears to behold not-self and the risk that not-self will
annihilate self looms, blocking the light of reality. Ego is our
vulnerability.

      The threat that other appears to present is the struggle of ego
to maintain its illusion of separate existence.

      The reality is that we are fundamentally invulnerable while at
the same time we constantly die again and again, arising anew as
another.

      From moment to moment the ground of our being is unchanged and
outside those moments; the apparent self is continually subject to
modification while pretending to remain unchanged behind the name "I."
      We are love because love is the self-realization of our
fundamental unity, and that self-realization is what we are.
      Consciousness aware of itself.

      Love is like peekaboo. The parent hides behind the hnads, but
the hiding is a public display that says "I am here" while it pretends
to conceal. Love pretends that unity is not here and then parts its
hands and reveals that unity was hiding here all along.
      The Self plays peekaboo with itself.

What is fear of love?

      Fear of love is the memory of the temporary ascendance of the
sense of separation and an accompanying pain that ego suffered. But
love removes the fear of love.
      Love reveals the truth and self is the innocent victim that dies
the death of purification.
      Fear burns in love.
      But love cannot be burned by fear because love is the truth and
fear is an error.
      Fear can conceal love for a time, but love remains the fundament
of our existence.
      We are love.
      We are one.

      Trust is the hand extended toward the truth before the truth is in hand.
      Trust is the germ of the truth that makes itself known in secret.
      Trust is John the Baptist preceding Jesus.
      Trust points to the truth before the truth has arrived.
      Trust knows before knowing can be.
      Simply trust.
      Trust in yourself.
      Trust in live.
      Trust in the reality that is our life and our being.


Richard S. Bogartz
Department of Psychology
University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Amherst, Massachusetts 01003-7710

bogartz@psych.umass.edu

413-545-0440

