from Harriet Lerner's web site:
Consider these four criteria for healthy intimacy, whether you call it
"love" or "sauerkraut."

    1.. An intimate relationship is one in which we can be who we are
(rather than what the other person wants and expects us to be) and
allow the other person to do the same. This means we can say what we
think and feel in a relatively uncensored way, and we can share both
our competence and our vulnerability without having to hide or
exaggerate either. Authenticity and truth-telling - and the sense of
safety, ease and comfort in a relationship that make these possible -
are at the heart of intimacy.

    2.. An intimate relationship enlarges (rather than diminishes) our
sense of ourselves and our world. As psychiatrist Jean Baker Miller
notes, an intimate or growth-fostering relationship brings us more
zest and vitality, more capacity to act, more feelings of self-worth,
a more accurate picture of our self and the other, and a greater
motivation for connections with other people beyond those in the
specific relationship.

    3.. An intimate relationship also involves mutuality. This
includes mutual respect, mutual empathy, and mutual nurturance and
caretaking.

    4.. An intimate relationship is one in which we gain self rather
than lose self. This means we can be with our partner and do the
following:

    Clearly state our beliefs, values, and priorities and keep
our behavior congruent with these.

    Stay emotionally connected to our partner even in the face of
conflict and disagreement.

    Address difficult and painful issues and take a position on things
that matter.

    State our differences and allow the other person to do the same.

    Have clear goals and a life plan that will allow us to live our own
life (not his) as well as possible.


Intimacy is a tall order, if not a lifelong challenge. But women can't
be careful enough when it comes to matters of the heart. In the name
of "love" we may lower our standards, compromise our dignity and
self-regard, and even abandon our friends for someone whom we probably
shouldn't trust enough to water our plants when we leave town. The big
question isn't whether the love we feel is "real" but rather whether
the relationship is good for us and whether we're navigating our part
in it in a solid way. It obviously takes much longer than a week to
size this up.


Five Styles of Managing Anxiety

UNDERFUNCTIONERS

a.. tend to have several areas where they just can't get organized.
b.. become less competent under stress, thus inviting others to take over.
c.. tend to develop physical or emotional symptoms when stress is high in
    either the family or the work situation.
d.. may become the focus of family gossip, worry, or concern.
e.. earn such labels as the "patient", the "fragile one," the sick one,"
    the "irresponsible one."
f.. have difficulty showing their strong, competent side to intimate
    others.

OVERFUNCTIONERS

a.. know what's best not only for themselves but for others as well.
b.. move in quickly to advise, rescue and take over when stress
    hits.
c.. have difficulty staying out and allowing others to struggle with
    their own problems.
d.. avoid worrying about their own personal goals and problems by
    focusing on others.
e.. have difficulty sharing their own vulnerable, underfunctioning
    side, especially with those people who are viewed as having problems.
f.. may be labeled the person who is "always reliable" or "always
    together".

BLAMERS

a.. respond to anxiety with emotional intensity and fighting.
b.. have a short fuse.
c.. expend high levels of energy trying to change someone who does
    not want to change.
d.. engage in repetitive cycles of fighting that relieve tension but
    perpetuate the old pattern.
e.. hold another person responsible for one's own feelings and
    actions.
f.. see others as the sole obstacle to making changes.

PURSUERS

a.. react to anxiety by seeking greater togetherness in a
    relationship.
b.. place a high value on talking things out and expressing
    feelings, and believe others should do the same.
c.. feel rejected and take it personally when someone close to them
    wants more time and space alone or away from the relationship.
d.. tend to pursue harder and then coldly withdraw when an important
    person seeks distance.
e.. may negatively label themselves as "too dependent" or "too
    demanding" in a relationship.
f.. tend to criticize their partner as someone who can't handle
    feelings or tolerate closeness.


DISTANCERS

a.. seek emotional distance or physical space when stress is high.
b.. consider themselves to be self-reliant and private persons -
    more "do-it-yourselfers" than help-seekers.
c.. have difficulty showing their needy, vulnerable, and dependent
    sides.
d.. receive such labels as "emotionally unavailable", "withholding,"
    "unable to deal with feelings" from significant others.
e.. manage anxiety in personal relationships by intensifying
    work-related projects.
f.. may cut off a relationship entirely when things get intense,
    rather than hanging in and working it out.
g.. open up most freely when they are not pushed or pursued.





