It hurts to love someone and not be loved in return, but what is more
painful is to love someone and never find the courage to let that person
know how you feel. Maybe God wants us to meet a few wrong people before
meeting the right one so that when we finally meet the right person, we
will know how to be grateful for that gift. Love is when you take away the
feeling, the passion, and the romance in a relationship and find out you
still care for that person. A sad thing in life is when you meet someone
who means a lot to you, only to find out in the end that it was never meant
to be and you just have to let go. The best kind of friend is the kind you
can sit on a porch and swing with, never say a word, and then walk away
feeling like it was the best conversation you've ever had. It's true that
we don't know what we've got until we lose it, but it's also true that we
don't know what we've been missing until it arrives. Giving someone all
your love is never assurance that they'll love you back! Don't expect love
in return; just wait for it to grow in their heart but if it doesn't, be
content it grew in yours There are things you'd love to hear that you would
never hear from the person whom you would like to hear them from, but don't
be so deaf as not to hear it from the one who says it from his heart.

Never say good-bye if you still want to try- never give up if you still
feel you can go on- never say you don't love a person anymore if you can't
let go. Love comes to those who still hope although they've been
disappointed, to those who still believe, although they've been betrayed,
to those who still need to love, although they've been hurt before, and to
those who have the courage and faith to build trust again. It takes only a
minute to get a crush on someone, an hour to like someone, and a day to
love someone- but it takes a lifetime to forget someone. Don't go for
looks; they can deceive. Don't go for wealth; even that fades away. Go for
someone who makes you smile because it takes only a smile to make a dark
day seem bright. There are moments in life when you miss someone so much
that you just want to pick them from your dreams and hug them for real!
Hope you dream of that special someone. Dream what you want to dream; go
where you want to go; be what you want to be, because you have only one
life and one chance to do all the things you want to do. Always put
yourself in others' shoes. If you feel that it hurts you, it probably hurts
the person too. A careless word may kindle a cruel word may wreck a life; a
timely word may level stress; a loving word may heal and bless.

The happiest of people don't necessarily have the best of everything; they
just make the most of everything that comes along their way. Happiness lies
for those who cry, those who hurt, those who have searched, and those who
have tried, for only they can appreciate the importance of people who have
touched their lives. Love begins with a smile, grows with a kiss, and ends
with a tear. The brightest future will always be based on a forgotten past,
you can't go on well in life until you let go of your past failures and
heartaches.  When you were born, you were crying and everyone around you
was smiling. Live your life so that when you die, you're the one who is
smiling and everyone around you is crying.



