From: IN%"baalshem@ufl.edu"  "James Rushing" 28-APR-1999 23:48:00.67
To:   IN%"bigler@chem.ufl.edu"  "Monika Bigler", IN%"mki8372@tntech.edu"
"Mary Kelly Ivanov", IN%"mto1716@tntech.edu"  "Mark Orr",
IN%"baalshem@ufl.edu"  "James Rushing", IN%"honstudy@tntech.edu"
"Honstudy", IN%"chood@tntech.edu"  "Connie Hood", IN%"cmb103
CC:

4/28/99

I was writing on the BBS and I thought I'd write something about the
kind of person I'd like to marry. I don't really have any particular
intention behind this except that it might be good to get out and I'm
feeling depressed and don't feel like trying to sleep. So here goes.

First the cynical part. I'd like someone faithful. Someone who has
similar values to me on the important things, like honesty and
commitment and fidelity. Someone that I can trust not to have an
affair just because I'm not there at the moment, someone who is mature
enough and self-aware enough to stay committed.

The hardest part is the awareness. Most people aren't. That's really
depressing for me, because awareness is so much a part of my life. I
want someone who is as excited as I am about learning and growing and
*loving*. Who loves mysticism and can understand why the Mass is a
celebration. Someone who will cry with me when I share my communion
wafer with her, because she understands that I'm sharing my soul with
her.

I want someone that I trust to be the mother of our children. Someone
who is compassionate and loving and attentive and empathic. A person
who acknowledges our faults and chooses love instead of bitterness. A
person who isn't afraid to admit that we need outside help, that we
need counseling or mentoring.

I want someone who can challenge me intellectually and spiritually. I
want someone who has had enough sexual experience to know why she
chooses the sexual values that she has. Someone who can be free and
enjoy our lovemaking, for whom it's not just about the sex or about
the closeness but it's about the love.

I want someone I can have fun with, and be serious with. Someone that
I can talk to late at night, or wake up from a nightmare and know that
she'll hold me. Someone who's not afraid to help me cry when I need
to, who's not afraid of my anger when I need to express it, someone
who isn't afraid to express her own emotions.

I want a partner. I want a soulmate, someone that I'm deeply connected
with and aroused by and excited to be around. I want someone that I
can be vulnerable with. Someone that will allow me to be myself, who's
not afraid to be herself.

I want someone that isn't afraid to screw up. I want someone who will
allow me to make mistakes, but who will be strong enough in herself to
put her foot down when things are going too far. I want someone who
can laugh with me at the stupid things we do and say, but who
understands the love that we share that transcends the little things.

The other side of this is who I'm committed to being in my
relationship. I don't know what's coming up. I know that I'm not going
to rush things the way I did in my last relationship.

I also know that life will be much different than anything I imagine.
So there's that, too.

In my next relationship I'm going to be honest. I'm not going to say
things that I know aren't true. I'm not going to say that I don't love
her when I really do. I'm not going to say that I'm not angry when I
am. I'm not going to say that I won't do something if I intend to do
it. My intention is to be honest with my partner.

I'm going to be faithful. I was sexually faithful to Heather, but not
emotionally. I worked that out, but too late to save my marriage. At
least I won't be taking that crap into another relationship.

I'm going to have fun. I'm going to be myself. So much energy went
into being there for Heather that I forgot to live for myself, and
that came out in strange and unhealthy ways. But I want to bring all
of myself into my new relationship. I don't want to feel like she
doesn't know who I am. I want to be loved for the person I am, and I
can't have that if I don't show her.

Relationships are so much work. But it's really an amazing labor of
love when the people involved are committed to the Work. The mindtalk
here is that this person doesn't exist. I don't honestly know. I
haven't seen her. I have my doubts as to whether Heather ever really
was, or if she was playing a role for me. I don't know. But I'll look
for her. Maybe I'll find this person. Or maybe I'll change and some of
these things won't be as important as they are now. I know that being
the victim of an affair changes things for me. So we'll see where I am
when I heal these wounds.

james


