From: TTU::MER6957      "MICHAEL ROETTGER" 20-MAR-1999 00:39:37.41
To:   @JOURNAL
CC:   MER6957
Subj: People & the Void...

Its been about two weeks since I've written a journal; the atmosphere
at home just wasn't constructive to doing so and the past week has
been keeping my nose firmly held to the grindstone (in fact, I think
my nose has the grooves in it to prove this statement... :) ). Things
have finally loosened up quite a bit, so I now have some time to
breath. But the tension and the frustration have been continuing,
nevertheless. They seem to loom over me like guards in a prison block,
keeping me in line and unable to enjoy myself. The past month or so,
since I've started going to counseling, have been really beneficial in
giving me time and space to work on my issues; as I consequence, I
think that I have been feeling better now. But whatever the cause, the
general sense of hopelessness and meaninglessness in the world around
me have seemed to disappear as a general state. Those feelings have
been replaced by a sense of hope and a feeling that things can get
better, that I can accept the world and what I need to make of it for
a sense of identity, place, and purpose. I am decent and o.k. as the
person I am now; it is mainly my changing needs and conditions that
foster a need to change or die.

To change or die sounds like a pretty polarized way of looking at how
I need to live, but I think its a very basic truth about the world
around me. A rabbit must run to get away from a coyote or it dies and
becomes part of the food chain. If our sun burns out or an ice age
happens, the human race will probably wind up perishing off the face
of this one insignificant speck-of-a-planet in our solar system.
Similarly, with me, there are many things in my life that I must
change with like puberty, disease, a need for interdependence with
other human beings, etc., or I will die. Perhaps not in a physical
sense, but very much in the sense of not being the creative, pondering
muse that I seem to be. I find it very difficult to swallow that if I
am to successfully move through life and enjoy myself, I am in need of
accepting my lot of needing to change my activities, lifestyle, and
outlook on the world. But that just seems like a basic cost of being a
human being and, like it or not, I am alive, so I guess that is
something that I am to accept and move on with. To live, I must breath
and my heart must beat. It live happily and successfully, I need to
change and accept the alotting of myself. God my be totally
irrelevant, but that doesn't mean that I am.

The past 21 years of my life, particularly the early years when I
willingly learned and mimicked my parents behavior, were very
instrumental in forming who I am today. They have contributed to
forming very deep psychological and physiological ways of being for
me. As I am becoming older, I don't need mom teaching me how to potty
or wash my clothes or dad to give me the means to live (in fact, the
opposite is becoming more and more true; they are needing me or
someone else more to care for them as they get older). I cannot change
the fact that I was raised to be away from others, taught to be fairly
thrifty and resourceful, and given the means for a fairly comfortable
life. I can change the interpretation of my history, but not the
person that I am. Now, as I have grown older and am entering a phase
of my life where I am largely able to take care of myself, it is my
job to leave the pattern I was brought up in and form what I am to be.
This time of my life seems to be a phase where I am discovering what I
am, who I am and want to become, how I am to accept the conditions
that come together to create me, what I can change and what it is to
be that I am just to accept and live with. Depression, a need for room
and space, and a need to think and act independently seem to be things
that I am to accept for the rest of my life and also live my life
accordingly by. A need for human contact and vulnerability are things
that I also seem to need and hence change myself enough to develop.

One of the things that has been particularly popping up with me lately
is a need for more direct communication with others. For most of my
college life, I have mainly depended on myself at school and not
sought particularly hard to interact with other people my age. Someone
once asked me how anyone would know if I died in my dorm room and I
replied that someone would probably eventually smell my rotting
corpse. Morbid, but if I didn't contact my parents more than twice a
week, it would probably be true that death in bed probably wouldn't be
noticed by anyone until the smell started to become gaggingly strong.
I think that such a realization has helped to foster a great deal of
hopelessness and meaningless in my life.

The scary reality for me is that I probably don't have any people who
I'd classify as real friends my age, mainly I just have acquaintances.
I think before that I've mentioned that it was after I graduated from
high school that I ever went out for an evening with a friend my age,
and that was mainly because I figured I'd never see him again if I we
didn't keep in contact with one another. Most of the relationships in
my life have been just been in my life, whether I liked it or not.
Probably, because they were of such good quality combined with my
general sense of being a naturally anxious and conscientious kid, I
developed more of a commitment type of personality than a "let's
develop relationships and fun on my own." Whatever the case, I find
myself generally drawn to people for companionship who are older than
me (though I, in general, seem to be socialized to be attracted to
women that are younger in years than I am, but that's another journal)
and of first urge to move away from "shallow people who will hurt me."
I think that last statement goes back to elementary school, where I
always found myself teased and classified as different than others.
And, if I believe that I will not be appreciated, accepted, and
fulfilled by people my age, then why should I let myself associate
with others my age?

The reality, however, is that, though there are certainly people in
the world around who will not appreciate or like me, there are people
who will certainly appreciate and accept me if I let myself find them.
Its no coincidence, I think, that I don't find people who I feel
comfortable with and like when I don't let myself find them. Its like
I keep expecting for these people to come out of the woodwork and seek
me out. But how can I really expect people who love and appreciate me
for the person that I am to come out of the woodwork, beat me on the
head, and make me happy? That's a contradiction, since love is, by
nature (I think), soothing, accepting and gentle. Therefore, the
obvious conclusion seems to me to be that I *need* to get together
with others, seeking and making a place in the world where I can be
fulfilled. If I look for a crowd, with 6 billion people in the world,
chances are that I can eventually find a group for me. To paraphrase
Jesus, "Seek and I will find, knock and eventually I may enter a
door." If I can get out of my shell long enough, maybe I can find some
sustenance.

The depression I feel seems to be something that may well be sparked
from my isolation and an unfulfilled need to interact with others.
When I'm at home, though I often get anxious and frustrated by
controls that my parents and family try to exert around me, I don't
seem to experience deep depression often. There I am often cared for,
can express and be myself, and have roles and needs carved out for me
where I can have an identity, be someone and somebody. Here at school,
where I am in an environment of little or no people to interact with
(and I put myself there because I am afraid and discouraged by others)
and no solid substance to really lean on when I experience doubt or
uncertainty, I am beaten and (as a result) often become raggedly
tired. Don't get me wrong, I think multiplicity is a great thing, a
needed part of learning to adapt with life's changing nature. But when
there is nowhere to stand or something to hang onto so that I don't
fall, I can get really caught up in cycles that just keep spiraling
downward to my destruction. Depression is not a bad thing, but when it
feeds on itself and never stops, it becomes something which leads to
my downfall and not something that helps in my becoming.

Another thing that really bothers me is the void and hopelessness I
seem to feel when I'm in a group of people. The more people I'm with,
the emptier I feel. I am comfortable being with a couple of friends,
but when a lot of people get together, I become really withdrawn and
want to leave. The feeling I get can be expressed as a sensation where
I'm being thrown to a pack of wolves. I seem to see myself as "man
enough" to handle a few people at a time, controlling the situation to
create a place where I can feel comfortable; however, when I am with a
large group of people, I feel like I am in a bunch of people who don't
care and want to ignore me. Of course, I clam up and withdraw, which
just contributes to making such a situation further become a reality.
A realization seems to overcome me where I perceive, "there are more
people who I will never know or cannot love, who will reject me here.
Do you see how many paths of happiness the gods are denying you,
Michael?"

Its getting late, so I think I'll head off to bed. I've got more
journaling to do tomorrow (or today, I guess since its after midnight!
:) ). I hope that everyone has a great weekend!

Love,

Michael

