From: IN%"elw@eckhart.ml.org" 15-DEC-1998 23:28:27.92
To:   IN%"ajb5383@tntech.edu"  "journal dis list -- Aaron Bibb",
IN%"ars9648@tntech.edu"  "Andrew Schnell", IN%"art2687@tntech.edu"  "Andy
Trent", IN%"cmb1033@tntech.edu"  "Chris Berry", IN%"jlb9118@tntech.edu"
"john burns", IN%"chood@tntech.edu"  "Dr. Conn
CC:
Subj: j; on demonizing people mindlessly

this really irritates me, so i am not sure how balanced i can stay with
it.

did you read what i was writing in the last journal about  how people had
been talking about david woods and how he irritates them?  that is a
necessary bit of background for this.

what irritates me is when people talk about other people and it turns into
an excuse to slash at them.

we were sitting at dinner tonight (mark, gary, aaron, lewis and i)  and a
major topic of discussion (then and afterwards) related to what other
people had done with themselves this semester.  basically, it was a bitch
session that didn't get labeled that way.

the same kind of thing went on again after we got back to 3rd and denton.
things were occasionally getting said that were more vent-like than
anything else.

is it honest to be talking about other people, especially when we don't
acknowledge that they are the way that they are for a reason?

we are sometimes not very accepting. :(

[this ties back to something that we were talking about in the tuesday
night group earlier this semester.  about being able to accept things
without the filter of our expectations.  we drifted from there into
talking about the tao level of it..  if that makes intuitive connections
for any of you, then that's good.  this was the meeting that we had at
gary's house... ]


the longer i see people doing things that i would call stupid, the more i
realize that those people have really been hurt by people in the past.

so why on earth are we perpetuating that cycle?

sometimes 'tough love' is appropriate, and sometimes it is just stupid.
the times that it breaks down into stupidity are the times that the
"healthy" person is getting their toes stomped on.  those people hurt us
because we arenot big enough to stand up and look at what we need to be
doing for them.  instead, we find faults and things that irritate us.


i guess this is me saying "get the hell over it."  i'm trying to take my
own advice too.  it is very hard.  i'm guilty of demonizing and hacking at
people too.  the awareness that i'm being hurtful is a very
strong motivator to stop performing those actions.  i don't like the fact
that i/we slid into talking about people's actions from a place that was
less than mindful.  and i am disappointed, too.

this is definitely a place to pay attention.  5-6 mentor students in a
group increases the likelihood that we will talk as if we are 'better' or
'less x-y-z flawed' than other people.   and that certainly isn't true or
honest.  we get authoritarian (or whatever you want to call it) and then
we are functioning out of a funky kind of group superiority complex and
just  DON'T MAKE SENSE.  just like chewbacca does not make sense...[... do
i need to type the whole chewbaccca defense here? i don't THINK so....
:) ]

whoops.  that was almost a bounce.  i think maybe i didn't want to deal
with the things about authority very much.  i am afraid that people will
not hear me.  i can hear aaron laughing under his breath and imagine him
bouncing what i'm saying.  that's the sucky kind of mindtalk... the kind
that is not outside of the range of possibility. i don't think
(consciously) that aaron will ignore this.  but it came to mind.

thanks for reading

love,
--elijah


