From will@himinbi.org Sat Jul 19 04:24:45 2003
Received: from localhost.localdomain ([213.185.107.13])
	by honors.tntech.edu (8.12.8/8.12.8) with ESMTP id h6J9Oc3x015887
	for <jsfromtherim@himinbi.org>; Sat, 19 Jul 2003 04:24:42 -0500
Received: from localhost (localhost.localdomain [127.0.0.1])
	by localhost.localdomain (8.12.8/8.12.8) with ESMTP id h6IHAeTS002536
	for <jsfromtherim@himinbi.org>; Fri, 18 Jul 2003 17:10:41 GMT
Date: Fri, 18 Jul 2003 17:10:40 +0000 (GMT)
From: Will Holcomb <will@himinbi.org>
X-X-Sender: will@localhost.localdomain
To: Journals from Mauritania <jsfromtherim@himinbi.org>
Message-ID: <Pine.LNX.4.44.0307181545340.2300-100000@localhost.localdomain>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Subject: [rim] 2003/07/18 - day twenty four b
Sender: jsfromtherim-admin@holcomb.info
Errors-To: jsfromtherim-admin@holcomb.info
X-BeenThere: jsfromtherim@holcomb.info
X-Mailman-Version: 2.0.13
Precedence: bulk
List-Unsubscribe: <http://holcomb.info/mailman/listinfo/jsfromtherim>,
	<mailto:jsfromtherim-request@holcomb.info?subject=unsubscribe>
List-Id: Will's journals from Mauritania <jsfromtherim.holcomb.info>
List-Post: <mailto:jsfromtherim@holcomb.info>
List-Help: <mailto:jsfromtherim-request@holcomb.info?subject=help>
List-Subscribe: <http://holcomb.info/mailman/listinfo/jsfromtherim>,
	<mailto:jsfromtherim-request@holcomb.info?subject=subscribe>
List-Archive: <http://holcomb.info/pipermail/jsfromtherim/>

When I would read other people's journals online I'd wonder why they would 
talk about their host family in the familiar: my mother, my little 
brother, etc. I'm always conscious of language and was leery of this 
because I wondered if these people were losing some part of their 
previous identity. I'm learning that it is several reasons that go into 
the relinguishing, the least of which is not that it gets cumbersome 
saying "host" all the time. =)

Beyond that though these people really are who you go to every day and who 
you spend your free time with. They are far more than just a cheap hotel. 
I feel close to my family even though my conversations are extremely 
limited since I hardly speak any French. There isn't any sense of distance 
from my family back in the States though.

Anyhow, that was sparked because I wanted to mention that my family is 
quite fond of the CD that Steph sent me. When I was sitting out writing I 
had it playing softly and since then whenever I am working on my laptop my 
father asks me to play it. I just wish I knew all the artist names since 
they keep asking. =)

*-*

Today I spoke to a fellow who is in the presidential guard. His English
was pretty good and he told me about how he wanted a white wife to have
healthy babies with and go to America. He asked me if I knew anyone. I
told him that I had a girlfriend, but I didn't know anyone who was
looking. He asked me if I had two girlfriends and could perhaps let him 
have one, but I told him that unfortunately there was only the one, so I 
had no spare. =)

I asked him about getting married in the RIM and he said that he would 
tell his father about the girl that he was interested in and then his dad 
would talk to her dad and work things out. Then he would pay her dad some 
money and they would be married. I am pretty sure it is a bride price 
(money paid) rather than a dowry (money received).

I went into that marriages in the US are more of an individual thing and 
that the girl would likely want to meet him, but he was persistent. I told 
him I would ask, so if anyone would like a Mauritanian husband just let me 
know.

On of his big things was having a brother who is living in LA and making
all kinds of money from a Mauritanian scale. My watch cost $20 before I
left and that is 5000um which is alot of money. I tried to explain that it
isn't in the US, and think I might have gotten the point across.

The other entertaining thing is he pointed to my host mother and signed 
that he wanted to be able to say "she has a nice ass," so I told him. =)

*-*

Center days was a nice break and among other things we found out our 
assignments. My site will be in Nouakchott as will all the other ICT's. If
Jason was still here he would be in Aioun. It is unusual for us all to be 
in the same city. I think it is a good idea though. For the sorts of work 
we will be doing it will likely be skills transfer over a relatively short 
period, so the flexibility will be useful.

Matt and I will be stationed with Cisco training center at the university 
and Carl and Robert will be at the ministry. We all have regions of the 
country that we cover though to sort of keep track of everything going on 
and offer any assistance needed. I will be covering the northern part of 
the Barka region (essentially a solar powered cyber cafe in a city 
called Maal founded with money from an America Online Peace-Pack grant) 
and the economic capitol of Nouadibou which was the only port until 
Nouakchott was founded. It is the endpoint for the world's longest train 
that I fully intend to ride.

Matt asked about the Cisco training center and what CCNA's (Cisco 
Certified Network Administrators) do in Mauritania. Obie's reply was 
"leave." I've wanted to be a CCNA. Maybe I'll learn some stuff that will 
help with that.

Interestingly there is no road to Nouadibou to get there you either fly or 
take a taxi brousse (bush taxi) up the coast along the ocean. The climate 
there is very cool; in the 70's much of the time apparently.

Cisco may be opening a new academy there soon.

*-*

I have new blisters on my back and wrist. I really don't think this is the
beetle. Apparently there are "heat rashes" where your skin is just taxed
by all the heat and it can cause rashes or blisters. We ICT go to
Nouakchott on Sunday for two weeks and I am going to try and catch the 
nurse while there. The thought of random blisters for two years does not 
entertain me.

*-*

Last night we did a talent show and I was signed up to get up and answer 
some questions. I claimed to have no demonstrable talent and Heather and 
Carl decided that my talent was explication at length. I suppose if that 
sort of thing entertains you then it is indeed a talent.

I think that I was in fact being set up, but when I got up there I 
switched and told one of dad's jokes instead. Something thing that I 
thought of while standing there was it would be really cool to learn a 
local story and be able to tell it. That is now a goal of mine to learn a 
local folk story to tell.

I prefaced my story saying that it was one of my father's and I mentioned 
that earlier that day he dropped me an e-mail saying that the recent 
family reunion had gone well and, by the way, he chopped off one of his 
fingers in a table saw. The first time I left home to go to college the 
house caught on fire within the month. This time I go off to Africa and 
dad loses a finger. I've decided my family got one guardian angel and it 
is having to watch me too closely.

Really I was surprised. He always seemed really careful with the saws. I 
suppose it only takes a moment though.

*-*

I've gotten a couple of indirect responses to the Taoism thing. Steph seems 
cool with it. Matt Estes and my dad both emphasized their relationships 
with God in a Christian context a bit. I think that's cool though; I am 
happy that they care enough about me to not want me to go to hell even if 
I don't personally believe that I am headed there.

I walked around with the Huston Smith book for a couple days and it 
started some interesting conversations. The interesting thing to realize 
in our Islam talk is that it was structured like our Christian culture was 
meeting their Muslim culture, but I've talked to enough people to know that 
probably less than half the group is Christian. There's quite a bit of 
agnosticism, some atheism, a pagan and I'm a Taoist. Lots of general "I 
like Christianity, but don't like how it is practiced."

I read the Taoism chapter before I read the Islam chapter and it was 
interesting. I think that my saying I am a Taoist is about like my saying 
I am a Christian. It means that I like the neighborhood, but not that I 
think all of it is right on. I'd say in general my beliefs tend to have a 
more philosophic bent and there is a decidedly literal section of Taoism. 
On the whole though I still sounds like the practitioners are the closest 
to what I would like to be doing.

I doubt though that any church will ever be able to replace the Christian 
church for me. So much of those metaphors have been a part of my 
conceptualization since childhood. I connect with them at such a deep 
level because I have so many good experiences there. Also, I really like 
the faith other than the original sin bit and the resultant necessity of 
salvation.

Interestingly, Islam does not have original sin even though they recognize 
the authenticity of the Torah and the Bible where they do not conflict  
with the Koran. Man is made of the stuff of God, but there is the concept 
of "forgetting" and from this sin arises. Also, there is a Koranic verse 
they taught us which essentially says "different people have their own 
faiths and don't try and turn them to yours." I like the toleration in 
that though I don't like the potential it sets up for nationalizing 
religions.

To close, I will put in a Taoism verse I liked:

Do you have the patience to wait
  till your mind settles and the water is clear?
Can you remain unmoving
  till the right action arises by itself?

As much as Matt Estes likes Pirsig and Quality, I am surprised he is not a
bigger fan of Taoism. It really does walk a line with hedonism and from
the outside it looks the same. I think though that most Christians would
understand that when you feel the movement of God in your life you may
have all kinds of options available to you, but you really only have one
path you can walk.

Again, there is the movement toward an experiential God; being touched by 
the Holy Ghost as I heard in my youth. How does someone touched by the 
Spirit know it is real? Taoism's answer is to be still and listen.

Love,
Will

P.S. Things that would be interesting to have:
  1. The sheet music for "Dust in the Wind" by Kansas. I had the three 
      part vocal with guitar in the middle and it was really pretty. If I 
      had it I may get balsy and sing it at a talent show.
  2. The song "Black Water" by the Doobie Brothers. I had it in my head 
      for a day, but couldn't remember half of it. Also Desperado by the 
      Eagles.
  3. Some stories from Appalachia. I really liked being up there and would 
      liked to have something to share. Perhaps I could trade stories when 
      I am able to speak more that ten French words.
  4. Maybe something by Martin Buber? I have been having vague 
      recollections of the concept of dialogical/dialectical thinking as I 
      sit around in the sun and wouldn't mind reading up on it some.


