From will@himinbi.org Sat Aug 16 06:39:17 2003
Received: from honors.tntech.edu (localhost [127.0.0.1])
	by honors.tntech.edu (8.12.8/8.12.8) with ESMTP id h7GBdHW2000877
	for <jsfromtherim@himinbi.org>; Sat, 16 Aug 2003 06:39:17 -0500
Received: from localhost (will@localhost)
	by honors.tntech.edu (8.12.8/8.12.8/Submit) with ESMTP id h7GBdHs3000873
	for <jsfromtherim@himinbi.org>; Sat, 16 Aug 2003 06:39:17 -0500
Date: Sat, 16 Aug 2003 06:39:17 -0500 (CDT)
From: Will Holcomb <will@himinbi.org>
To: Journals from the RIM <jsfromtherim@himinbi.org>
Message-ID: <Pine.LNX.4.44.0308160626400.31048-100000@honors.tntech.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: TEXT/PLAIN; charset=US-ASCII
Subject: [rim] 2003/08/16 - day fifty three b
Sender: jsfromtherim-admin@holcomb.info
Errors-To: jsfromtherim-admin@holcomb.info
X-BeenThere: jsfromtherim@holcomb.info
X-Mailman-Version: 2.0.13
Precedence: bulk
List-Unsubscribe: <http://holcomb.info/mailman/listinfo/jsfromtherim>,
	<mailto:jsfromtherim-request@holcomb.info?subject=unsubscribe>
List-Id: Will's journals from Mauritania <jsfromtherim.holcomb.info>
List-Post: <mailto:jsfromtherim@holcomb.info>
List-Help: <mailto:jsfromtherim-request@holcomb.info?subject=help>
List-Subscribe: <http://holcomb.info/mailman/listinfo/jsfromtherim>,
	<mailto:jsfromtherim-request@holcomb.info?subject=subscribe>
List-Archive: <http://holcomb.info/pipermail/jsfromtherim/>

Ok, so yesterday it was another scorcher and I pretty much blew the whole 
second half of the day piddling in the bureau piddling on the computers. 
I've got several little programs that I'm writing to do stuff like put my 
pictures on the web and what-not and I've been writing each in a different 
language. So far I've got some tcl, ruby, bash, perl, and xslt. Last night 
I played with learning some scheme and it is certainly interesting.

I've heard Matt Estes mention several of these concepts, and now I get to 
try and actually do something with them. =)

But to go back a bit...

When I got up in the morning I decided to walk over to the bureau since I 
got so lost the other day and wanted to be able to make better sense out 
of everything. The unfortunate part is I lay around for a while and didn't 
actually leave until around 10. Not a bad temperature at 10, but with the 
little bit of extra getting lost that I did, it hit noon pretty soon. Of 
course since I knew one way to get out to the capitol market I didn't go 
that way. Where's the adventure? =) So I wandered sort of along what I 
figured would be the diagonal of a triangle I was pretty sure I needed to 
make. I saw some pretty mosques (and wondered if it is kosher to 
photograph them.) (Or whatever kosher is in Islam.) =)

After about an hour I found the French Embassy which is about halfway. It
was getting really toasty though, and a fellow asked me to come over and
talk to him. So, I sat myself down and had a nice broken French
conversation and a cup of tea. Hot tea, granted, but tea nonetheless. So,
I continue on after about half an hour.

Pretty soon I pass an art sort of store. I've seen one other and they sell 
knives and ornamented teapots and necklaces and other such pretty 
knicknackery. One thing that interested me was a tiny little teapot 
probably an inch and a half high. I tried to ask the fellow what it was 
for, but he was mostly interested in trying to sell me a necklace (for 
6,500um.) Maybe someday I'll learn what they are and send a couple back. 
The teapot captures the spirit of this culture as well as about anything 
I've seen. Both the time spent sitting and chatting during the three 
courses, and the ass washing bit. =)

I learned that makaresh just means teapot. It isn't specifically for the 
butt.

Eventually I find the bureau and I'm feeling pretty good. I had the 
foresight to pick up a liter and a half bottle water as I leave and it is 
empty now.

Fast forward past bunches of computer playing to the night. I wander out 
at some point to find some bread and butter...

One food thing that is better here is the bread. They are very French with 
the bread. It is always baked the same day and breakfast every morning is 
bread and butter. One morning I found a croissant and it was quite tasty 
as well. There's a third type of bread that is less leavened and 
supposedly is particular to Mauritania. I'm fond of all of it. =)

One strange thing during center days though is that they give us stuff to
put on the bread and the options include jam, chocolate frosting, and
mayonnaise. I tried the mayo and it is pretty much a ham and cheese
sandwich hold the ham and cheese. By far my favorite is the strawberry
preserves though. Yum.

Ok, so I buy a big load of bread, literally about 3/4 as long as my arm, 
and a block of butter. I have 500um and the bread is 100um and the butter 
150um. I go back and waste some more time tying to understand the whole 
macros thing in scheme.

Around midnight I decide to head back home. Alas, the cab rides that are
usually 200um go up about 100um after midnight and my 250um meal has left
me short. So, again with my good sense, I decide to walk back thinking
that surely since I've gotten lost the last three times I've gone walking
in the day I'm all done with that. It's easier at night anyhow, because
it's cooler. =) To make a long story short I ended up hailing a taxi at
1:45am.  =)

The business parts of town really shut down at night. (And it was also
Friday so alot of people don't work anyway.) The numerous security talks
that we've received and knowing that a PCV was raped walking in Nouakchott
at night last year (first PCV rape in the RIM I think) made me a little
skittish walking down deserted streets.

What Katerie was talking about with the only guys who live together are 
those who are too rough to abide by their families rules was also going 
through my head. There were a bunch of young guys sitting by a building 
talking and the police pulled up in a truck and broke them up. I didn't 
feel really scared ever, but I did have Matt's number already punched in 
on the cell phone in my pocket.

So, I walked, found the French Embassy again, but after that I only had a 
general sense of where to go. I walked for an hour after that and 
recognized that I had literally come in a circle. I tried calling both 
Matt and Carl, but as is often the case, the cell phones weren't working. 
At that point I hailed one of the few cabs on the road.

When I got back to the house where everyone was staying the door was
locked. I kicked on it and Matt came down. Confusion ensued because I told
him I was short and was going up to my room to get money and he asked if I
wanted him to just pay it. I said yes, but unbeknownst to me when he tried
to give the cabbie 100um (I had 200um) he refused it as not enough because
I hadn't done my part yet. Matt went back inside then and I spent 10
minutes arguing with the cabbie because he not only tried to get the 300um
we agreed on, he tried to get 200um more for taking me on a longer route
to show me how to get there. That was his downfall because confusing me
with new prices sidetracked the conversation and kept me from figuring out
that Matt hadn't in fact paid him 100um. So whenever he'd ask for 100um
more I'd think it was for the scenic route.

Eventually my French started to break down. Literally, I'd just call him
some names in English and go back to politely trying to understand the
situation. I told him that I was too tired to argue with him (it is past 2
and I've done a total of 4 hours of walking today) and I am going to bed.
I went upstairs and locked the door. Fortunately Matt came down (most of
them sleep on the roof because it is cooler, but I don't because I don't
have a mosquito tent) and told me he didn't give the guy any money. I felt
much chagrin and asked him to pay for me because about this time I
realized all my cash was in the backpack I left at the bureau. So I was
literally broke.

It was just an interesting evening. Never bad really. A little 
uncomfortable at times, but never harrowing.

Love,
Will


