From will at himinbi.org  Sun Jul 25 15:11:45 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Sun Jul 25 15:11:43 2004
Subject: [rim] Dress To Impress
Message-ID: <20040725201145.GA21352@honors.tntech.edu>

In an unexpected windfall today I got to wash two loads of clothes in
an automatic clothes washer. How very nice that is; no bleeding
knuckles, no sore back, no mucking about with the clothes line. I'm
definitely a fan of this technology.

It was a friend of Marc's. I'm not very good at asking for things from
people that I know I can provide for myself (like clothes washing). I
don't have any problems with mooching, I just have trouble setting it
up. Fortunately Marc was my in, so I tagged along with him.

Oumar showed up at my house this morning at the now habitual 9am on
his way to his computer class. I dragged my butt out of bed and
chatted with him for a little bit. I mentioned that I was going to
wash clothes and realized that he has never seen a washing machine in
his life.

I described the basic idea to him: big metal box you stuff your
clothes in and they get cleaned. He was largely nonplussed though. I
suppose that since the women of his household do all his washing for
him it really isn't a pressing need in his life.

I haven't washed clothes since I came back from France (about a month
and a half ago), so my wardrobe was getting a little slim. When I did
my clothes I even washed what I had on, changing into a pair of shorts
in the interim.

When I was getting ready to leave, I discovered that the washer had
eaten the button off of one of my new shirts. Not a big problem, since
Sharon graciously sent me a little sewing kit a while back, but a
temporary inconvenience.

I decided that I'd put on a tank top and wear the shirt open over top
of it since I was headed to a party later on (the group of volunteers
who were here when I arrived are now leaving). It is definitely more
risque than what I normally wear, but I was in the rich part of town
and I figured people would be accustomed to a more Western look. It
wasn't like I was wearing shorts or the tank top by itself or
anything.

My first clue that perhaps I'd misjudged came about three minutes on
the street when a random girl in a mulafa sitting on a stoop made
kissing noises at me saying "chaud, chaud" (literally "hot, hot" and
with the same connotation of physical attractiveness).

This was a much more blatant response that what I would have expected,
even if I was breaking the rules. While I was still walking along
considering it I had a bunch of kids start chasing me, chanting
various things. This is not unusual since the roving gangs of
youngsters often entertain themselves with us white folk. I usually
reciprocate by yelling random English phrases back at them. There's
never rocks thrown or any serious malice, just good natured harassment
on both sides.

This group though was following me along chanting primarily two things
that I understood. "Habibi" which is "lover" in Arabic and "sai-sai"
which is "player" (in the sexually permissive sense) in Wolof. Not
necessarily bad things to be called, but again revealing that my
outfit was not especially well integrated.

So, I buttoned up my shirt. All in all though I left the experience
feeling pretty good. I've decidedly never been a playa in my life, so
to be taken for one, even accidentally, made me feel sort of sexy.
Granted I know of no way to translate this impression to the women in
my life, but sometimes you take what you can get.

Love,
Will
