From will at himinbi.org  Mon Oct 11 00:57:52 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Wed Oct 13 16:06:40 2004
Subject: [rim] Vaurien
Message-ID: <20041011055752.GA3859@trogdor.mr>

I am a complete and total slacker. I've been back from Mali for a week
now and I've had my journal sitting by the computer waiting for me to
type my entry in. I am going to get to it. Really.

My only excuse is I have bronchitis and latent tuberculosis. Also
really. =) I'm on amoxycilin and go in for a chest X-ray in a couple
days.

I don't feel especially bad, but if you feel sorry for me, feel free
to ask me for things to send. =) Jelly beans are always appreciated,
but nothing seems to have made it through customs in the last two
months, so that is perhaps not advisable.

I could also really go for some sort of massage oil (an essential oil
that I could mix with something here would be most economical). I'll
not goto the whole story, but if I can't see my abs by February or
lift my own weight, I have to speak French while playing softball. If
you want the whole bit it is here:

  http://www.livejournal.com/~ivankara/5513.html
  http://www.livejournal.com/~ivankara/5761.html

I've started back to the gym and my fifteen months vacation (and being
sick) mean I feel like I was hit by a car. I've not had time to get
into it really and the gym will be closing for Ramadan, so I am
guaranteed a new round of pain in about a month. Having something to
aid in fixing that would rock.

In other news, targeted house to house searches have turned up the
leader of last years' coup. Security has been tightening up all over
the place here. I really don't know how seriously to take any of it.
I'm not personally worried for my security at all. If anything goes
down it will likely be religious fundamentalists doing something to
the government. The probability is really slight though with all the
security checkpoints up right now that anything will happen at all.

Anyhow, I'm going to go be good and work on typing up my Mali journal.

Love,
Will
