From will at himinbi.org  Sun Jul 18 15:01:35 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Sun Jul 18 15:01:22 2004
Subject: [rim] Beautiful People
Message-ID: <20040718200134.GA4397@trogdor.mr>

While I was in Paris I hung out with a girl who was a self-proclaimed
member of the "beautiful people." Her membership rested not only on
being an physically attractive person (which she was), but also being
an engaging and interesting one. Given that her history included both
marriage to a Pentecostal minister and a cocaine addiction I thought
she qualified on the interesting axis.

Having never having had a member of this elect deem to pass some time
with a plebeian such as myself before it gave me pause for reflection.

I've debated in my mind for a while what it is morally correct to
believe about divisions of people. I think that the most compassionate
people can appreciate the beauty in most everyone. I feel a bit
tainted when judging and ranking people. To declare a class of them
"beautiful" and by proxy the rest "not so beautiful" feels either
elitist or depressing depending on whether I'm classing myself
beautiful or not.

Beautiful is a bit misleading I think. It lies too much in the
physical plane. The way I think about it is to think about reading a
history book. Eras and cultures can be summarized in a few sentences,
but there are a few exceptional people, the great leaders and
creators, who were enough outside the norm to warrant mention beyond
their peers.

Not that one is either destined for the history books or dreary
trodding life of mundania. I do think though that the general concept
of people being more or less interesting is one that holds up to
scrutiny.

An article I read a little bit ago had this quote: "I remember the guy
at my 30th high school class reunion who looked over the people there
and remarked, 'I can't believe I came in person, while everyone else
sent their parents!'"

Some people forge their personalities more so than others. This makes
them more interesting. At least it does for me who is only mildly
talented at beholding the beautiful soul in everyone. I know deep down
that if I were a noble and magnanimous person (or perhaps simply
secure) I'd not compare myself to others and judge myself better or
worse, but as it is I seem unable to stop and accept it as another of
my flaws.

This issue is one which is poignant currently because I recently
achieved one year of celibacy. Granted it was not an especially
difficult achievement since for half of it I was dating Steph and the
other didn't exactly see my door beaten down with women attempting to
ravish me.

I've just been feeling a bit lonely in the last couple weeks and
contemplating a relation amoureuse with the fairer sex. Seeing the new
group of trainees come in really marked the passage of time.
Traveling, as well, left me with lots of time to miss the company that
I didn't have. Also, in the last couple days I've talked to Steph a
bit and that sparked memories of what things were like when we were
together.

The idea of the beautiful people works in here because I am pretty
picky. Once upon a time I was as enamored with the idea of being in a
relationship as I was with the actual person that I was dating. It was
just good luck that saw me into a string of relationships with solid
women. Going out with Steph though the first time I really did it in
the long term (4.5 years) and in that time I had ample opportunity for
the glamor to wear off and to come to terms with the gritty reality of
what entwining your life with another person's really is.

So, now I like the idea of being involved, but not enough to do it
without really being taken by the woman.

It begs the question of "how beautiful/interesting am I?" I figure
this is an essential point to ponder since if I am going to set my
sights it is best to set them realistically.

So far things have not been going especially well. Much of it boils
down to a Jungian shadow sort of deal. I've got some good qualities,
but they all seem exaggerated to the point of becoming flaws.
Intelligence to the point of over-analysis and detachment. Dynamicism
to the point if inconstancy. Confidence to the point of arrogance and
condescension. One of the reasons I've not been writing was the onset
of a general "I suck" funk wherein I couldn't see myself as having
much of anything to offer the world. A bit dramatic, granted, but I
am, after all, passionate to the point of dramatic. =)

With my friends and acquaintances I am understanding and amiable. I've
got relatively few requirements and am generally content to leave
people follow their own paths. With myself and my girlfriends I am not
so easy-going. I feel the press of life slipping away and the urgent
call to do something meaningful. I can leave others to follow their
own paths and wile their lives away, but I have to go somewhere.
Consequently, if there is someone traveling with me she has to be
going somewhere too or else I'm just dragging her along.

Now, I am aware that being a critical person does not necessarily make
one the ideal partner for a relationship. When I'm in a condemnatory
mood it is not especially entertaining to be me, let alone to be
around me. So far as stopping though, I have a hell of a time shaking
the fear that I'll wake up one day 80 and wonder where exactly my life
went and why I didn't do more with it.

Anyhow, I just needed to talk a bit. I can't see any of this mattering
a whole lot currently since I do still live in Africa and my options,
given I can't talk intelligibly with 99% of the population, are pretty
limited. There's a French goddess who walks among us occasionally,
but an unfortunate bit of miscommunication (I told a secret I didn't
know was a secret and it got told back to her) dashed my already slim
chances. There's another girl who is possibly interesting, but I
haven't yet been able to excite any response from her other than a
friendly smile.

I read somewhere that around 15% of people would estimate themselves
to be of below average intelligence. (Meaning 35% of people are wrong
in their estimation.) I personally would think myself at least close
to average attractiveness: a bit odd, but in an intriguing sort of
way. Perhaps I'm a bit odd in a "let's just be friends sort of way."
Maybe I'll start polling people. That'd make for some uncomfortable
moments...

I've waxed self-examinatory long enough. I reckon I ought to give up
on this day and go home since I've been here for eight hours and have
managed to accomplish nothing. Thanks for listening though.

Love,
Will

P.S. In poker you have "tells" or unconscious actions that a player
will do that reveal information about their hand. I was watching
myself with this potentially interesting girl the other night and
found myself looking over my glasses at her. I do this at no other
time and with no other people except occasionally for effect in a
conversation. So far as doing it unconsciously though, this is the
only time. Just thought it was interesting.
