From will at himinbi.org  Sun Jun 20 08:08:28 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Sun Jun 20 08:08:59 2004
Subject: [rim] Stars
Message-ID: <1790.82.125.8.83.1087736908.squirrel@honors.tntech.edu>

Well, all worked out well. Some hunting on the internet and subsequent phone
calls led me to the Hotel des Arts right in the middle of town. The shower
and toilet are down the hall, which is what I guess qualifies it for one
star, but the room was clean, spacious and 22?50 with a double bed, so it's
A-OK in my book.

I took a little nap and wandered the city for a few hours. For dinner I went
to the Monoprix which is a pretty good sized department store with a
grocery. I was following up on a rumor that there was cheddar cheese to be
found in the Monoprix, but it turned out not to be true. I picked up some
off brand goat cheese and a loaf of bread. On the way out some random girl
was doing samples of a new Danon jouice with milk drink. I bought some just
because it was the first person I'd talked to and it made me feel good.

The guys here are apparently pretty aggressive in approaching girls and they
are fairly gun shy because of it. Smiling isn't something you do to
strangers. It has a definite connotation as a come-on. Kittie said she liked
it because she thought it was more honest. Me, I sort of like having a clear
signal for attraction, but I miss smiling at random people on the street. It
just widens the gap between everyone losing that little point of contact.

As for the Monoprix I didn't really like buying stuff there. Paris and
Toulouse both still have lots of little shops and vendors scattered along
the streets. Much more so than back home. This is something that big
discount stores will eventually do away with. I wanted to use my credit card
though since I'm nearly out of cash and so I shopped there since it was
safe.

It is really nice just wandering through a big grocery store and seeing all
the many choices. Especially here in France where there are tons of cheeses
and breads and sausages. Everything is really expensive, so I can't really
buy anything, but it is nice to see nonetheless.

One interesting thing is yogurt. It is a much bigger part of the diet here
and so instead of a yogurt section there's a wall of yogurt. Thirty or forty
brands with more flavors than you can count. I couldn't help but smile. I
was careful though not to point it at anyone lest they think I was coming on
the them.

For the night I went to a big Mexican music festival that happens to be
going on now; the Rio Loco.

  http://www.garonne-rioloco.org/

It is held along the Garonne river which is only about a five minute walk
from my hotel. There was some good jazz with a Spanish feel. The vendors
selling ethnic products from around the world were as entertaining as
anything. Tonight is the big night for the festival, so I'm gonna head back.

This morning I got moved to a more expensive room. For 2? more I've now got
a window over looking the street and a bidet. I like the window, don't know
what the hell to do with the bidet.

This would be cool with another person too because the room is 4? more to
share it and that'd be 14? apiece. Mannkhi mouskila; no problem.

Anyhow, I've decided my treat for the afternoon will either be Mexican food
(the Mexican family left Mauritanina and closed their restaurant before I
came) or a movie if I can't find a Mexican restaurant. I've just recently
learned what tapas are, so maybe I'll try them.

Love,
Will
