From will at himinbi.org  Fri Jun  4 18:41:10 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Fri Jun  4 18:41:31 2004
Subject: [rim] Paris
Message-ID: <2110.81.64.14.7.1086392470.squirrel@honors.tntech.edu>

Well, I managed to make it all the way to Paris. I'm here at Robert's now
getting ready to catch a few z's before meeting my family tomorrow
morning. The boat ride was great. I spent most of my time hanging out with
a Scottish fellow. He'd just been hanging around Morocco for the last six
months soaking up sun and fun.

I liked the trip though again having more people to talk to would have
been nice. There were some friendly French people, but unfortunately my
French is only good enough to follow them when they speak nice and slow.
Not really condusive to animated conversation. The trip ended up taking 36
hours, but it was fine because food was free on the boat. I managed to
miss both dinners though. The first one because I didn't know it was free
and the second was karmic I think because I didn't pay for my coke at
lunch. (They wanted 1,8euro for it and I didn't know it cast anything). I
went in to breakfast ready to pay, but they didn't ask. After I left
though one of the waiters acosted the Scottish guy. All white folks look
alike.

Getting up to Paris was amazingly easy. The train left about 30 minutes
after we pulled into port. I had a fifteen minute layover in Montpellier
and was on a TGV (high speed train) arriving in Paris by 4. 66euro in all,
though not once during the ride did anyone examine my ticket. It turns out
the seats were assigned on the TGV and I was occupying the seat of a
rather cute French girl. Damn my inability to express anything
intelligible in French.

It took me a good hour and a half to find Robert's even though he is only
about a mile away. It is just something about my uncanny sense of
direction.

We went out tonight and had some really nice food. Robert treated which
was especially nice since it would have been about half my remaining
money. A friend of his who is a travel writer name Jack came over and
livened things up quite a bit. After dinner he walked us around a while to
see the city a bit. It is really beautiful and I'm going to hang out for a
bit at the end to see more.

Seeing it though and having a sense of the homogenity of large wastern
urban centers has left me thinking more about my end of service trip. I
was going to go Europe, but Asia and Nepal in particular are looking more
attractive now.

Boy, if I thought I'd be cold in Europe in September... I also learned
there is skiing in the Atlas mountains in Morocco for pretty cheap. A road
trip up from Mauritania sounds like an interesting adventure. Have to keep
it on the list of potentials.

Well, it is 1:30am here and I need to be up in qbout six hours to meet my
family, so goodnight. Bisslamah as Kahrim taught me to say on the boat.

Love,
Will
