From will at himinbi.org  Thu Jun 17 00:33:39 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Thu Jun 17 00:34:16 2004
Subject: [rim] on the road again
Message-ID: <4072.81.64.14.7.1087450419.squirrel@honors.tntech.edu>

Wow, so much has happened that there is no hope whatsoever that I can
capture any appreciable amount. In particular not in the twenty minutes I
have to pack before heading out to Toulouse.

Hopefully my little brother, Brett, will be working with his girlfriend,
Jen, and getting some pictures and narrative up of our France tour. I was
doing pretty good about writing in my little paper journal while coming up
through Morocco. Given though that I had no one to talk to and nothing to do
it wasn't that hard. Seeing my family and our subsequent whirlwind tour saw
an end to that.

I've been hanging out at Robert's for the last four days. I've been getting
to see a bit of the city. Paris is a really beautiful place. Everywhere I
turn there's a monument or a church or some other bit of history dating back
to before my country existed. The layout of the city is really nice too. The
streets are nice and wide and people getting out to picnic or sunbathe in
the parks or anlong the Seine is pretty common. My desire to live here for a
bit has decidedly been strengthened by my visit.

Interesting things in the last couple days:

Louvre. Monday afternoons are free for people under 26, so I took advantage
of that and got lost (literally) in the Louvre for a few hours. Saw the
obligatory Venu de Milo and Mona Lisa. The museum is huge. More than twelve
miles of galleries supposedly. Different parts are open at different times,
so I only saw about a third, but it was more than enough to occupy me for
the three hours I had.

Robert has taken me to a couple of expat parties. One of them was "Jim's
Party" which has been held weekly for the last 25 years with over 100,000
visitors to date. Things were pretty light the night we were there with
maybe 60 people in attendance. I did though meet Kittie from Oak Ridge,
Tennessee of all places.

Kittie and I went to see Sacre Coeur Bastilica and Montmartre. I'd seen alot
of impressive churches in the last couple days, but this one was
spectacular. Most gothic cathedrals have a uniform style. Even Notre Dame is
the high arches arranged in a cross pattern. Stunning, but not especially
originial. Sacre Coeur is a huge dome.

There is also a really nice view of Paris from on Montmartre. We sat around
chatting for a bit before heading to a cemetary to wander through the
ancient mosoleums. There is just so much stone used in construction here.
That they have enough left for the ground is surprising. I'm betting this
city is surrounded by giant holes.

It was nice just sitting around talking to a cute girl in English. She's got
a long term boyfriend back home, so no romance, but a nice day in any case.
We tried to go find some night life, but it being Tuesday precluded that.

This city really would be a great one to have a romance in though. There's
just something in the air.

Anyhow, my train leaves in an hour and I've got to pack. Hopefully I'll get
to use a computer before getting home in a week. I was planning on staying
with Marc and taking the boat back between Sete and Tangier, but Marc is
leaving tomorrow, so I'm headed down to Madrid for a couple days.

I'm feeling pretty good about it though. I'm getting the hang of this travel
thing.

Love,
Will
