From will at himinbi.org  Sun Aug  1 21:45:30 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Wed Aug  4 12:46:29 2004
Subject: [rim] Plagues
Message-ID: <20040802024530.GB2792@trogdor.mr>

Moses, in an attempt to get his people freed from slavery, called down
10 plagues upon the Egyptians. A running joke among the volunteers is
that we live in the Bible. It stands up to a surprising amount of
scrutiny:

Plague #1: Nile Turned to Blood

Schistosomiasis is a disease caused by parasites. It is the second
most widespread disease in Africa (after malaria). As adults the
parasites are worms which can live in the bloodstreams of a variety of
mammals, including humans. Their infancy is passed in the intestines
of snails, thus the common name, "snail fever." On of the largest
outbreaks of schisto in recent history occurred after the damming of
the Senegal River (which forms the southern border of Mauritania).
Symptoms of schisto in include urinating and defecating blood.

It is more the waters turning other waters to blood, but you can see
the argument. Supposedly the infection rates are high enough in some
places in the south that the onset of pissing blood in young boys is
viewed much like the onset of menstruation in girls. Myself, you'd
have to forcibly subdue me, tie me up and throw me in to get me in the
Senegal River.


Plague #2: Frogs

This one is pretty straightforward. In the south because there is a
relatively short rainy season pretty much all life has to struggle into
being, forge it's estate and propagate before everything dries up
again. Spring, summer and fall are all crammed into the span of about
three months, with the other nine given over to a long hot reverse
winter.

I'm too far north to have seen it, but supposedly there are giant
armies of little frogs that appear toward the beginning of the rainy
season. Supposedly you can't walk anywhere without them crunching
under your feet they're so plentiful.


Plague #3: Lice

Can't say as we've got this. At least not more than most other places.
Bedbugs and fleas have dined on me here, but no lice. Hopefully it
stays that way.


Plague #4: Flies

Oh Lord, the flies. Ever and always the flies. The streets are full of
garbage and feces. What else could there be other than swarms of
flies? I remember when I first got here and would have days when I
just couldn't take the flies anymore.

I'm headed back to Ka?di tomorrow to help with Stage and I'm taking
the fly-swatter that my mom brought me from home. I plan on dealing
some swift plastic death to those bastards for my torment last year.


Plague #5: Disease of Livestock

If there is such a thing as karma and reincarnation pretty close to
the bottom of the karmic ladder is being an animal in Mauritania. I
didn't realize how bad it was until I was in France and saw pudgy
sleek cats and they looked strange to me. You don't feed animals here.
They eat what they can find.

The worst of the worst are the donkeys. If I were to live here for
another twenty years I'll never be able to watch a donkey struggling
to pull an overloaded cart under a rain of blows without it making my
stomach turn. When one of the fellows was asked why he wasn't nicer to
his donkey and maybe if it were healthier it could work harder, he
replied, "Donkeys are cheap. I'll just get a new one when this one
dies."

In any case I'd say death is just a welcome release for most of these
creatures.


Plague #6: Boils

There's still a pock in my knee from my most recent boil. Some people
seem to be more afflicted than others. I'm lucky to have gotten off
with just one bad one to date.


Plague #7: Hailstorm

This one not at all. Nothing frozen has ever naturally occurred in
this country to the best of my knowledge. We get some spectacular
sandstorms that might qualify as a substitute, but never any hail.


Plague #8: Locusts

This is actually the reason I thought to write this today. The locusts
have arrived. The UN's Food and Agriculture Organization was
collecting some millions of dollars to combat the clouds of locusts
that are supposed to sweep down out of Mauritania and eat up West
Africa. Apparently they failed because when I came out of my house
today it looked like there were snow flurries. This was a bit
confusing given it is about 110 degrees. I went up on my roof and
looked around and everywhere there are locusts flying.

It didn't look too bad though. Again, not thick dark clouds blotting
out the sun or anything like that. Just a pretty consistent cover
everywhere like heavy snow flurries. When I got the the university
though I saw differently. Every plant was a light brown rather than
its normal green. It wasn't that they'd eaten everything, it was that
everything was completely covered with a layer of locusts. In many
places on the lawn it was two or three locusts thick.

I'm guessing that thing are not bad in the air right now because the
locusts are sitting the heat out. It is just amazing to see. It just
goes beyond comprehension; there are just so many insects.


Plague #9: The Darkness

The sun's not been blotted out so far as I've noticed. Just have to
wait and see on this one.


Plague #10: Death of the Firstborn

With an under 5 years mortality rate of 183 per 1000 live births,
Mauritania has the 15th highest child mortality rate in the world. The
life expectancy is 52 (190 / 225 countries). In short, firstborn or
not, living in Mauritania will kill you.


So we've got a pretty good case for seven out of ten plagues. Not too
bad. I'll have to keep my eyes open for cases of lice or if the sun
gets blotted out.

Love,
Will
