From will at himinbi.org  Mon Jun 28 07:36:12 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Mon Jun 28 07:36:55 2004
Subject: [rim] Fou
Message-ID: <20040628123612.GA2513@trogdor.mr>

Well, I just had my bit of surrealism for the day.

I was limping my way over to the university to get a little bit of
work done. As I'm walking past the Saudian mosque I see a fellow
walking toward me. He has the sense of being at least a little "fou."

"Fou" means "crazy," but to understand the sense you need to use a
more 19th century definition of the word; think Boo Radley crazy. It
doesn't necessarily mean "mentally ill" as much as "unwilling or
unable to recognize and abide by social mores." I mentioned a while
back that there is much more uncorrected physical deformation here
than you'd see in the States. The same is also true of mental
handicaps.

The fellow coming up to me is both dirty and looks distracted rather
than showing any real focus on me. As I am passing him though he looks
toward me and holds up his left hand as though for me to shake.

This would make sense in the U.S. since in his right hand he is
holding a stack of probably a dozen little notebooks. Here though you
would hold your right arm out and permit the other person to grasp
your wrist or your forearm. You'd never give them your left hand
though. It is ritually unclean and even handing someone money with the
left hand is something I've never seen.

I just sort of looked at him since I'm well enough trained now that I
had no more impulse to stick out my left hand than I had to bow or
salute. It simply isn't the right response and my body knew that even
before I thought it.

Seeing that I wasn't going to take his hand he grabbed my left wrist
with his hand. He grabbed it really firmly and I was surprised. As I
was prying his hand off of my wrist he asked me where was from. When I
said I was American he gave a little cry and sort of skipped back
throwing his little notebooks all over the place.

He seemed angry, I'm assuming with my country. As he occupied himself
with the collection of his notebooks I limped off since I saw nothing
good coming of hanging around.

I noticed as I was walking that my wrist was bleeding from where he
was holding it. The thought of what might have entered the wound from
the fellow's left hand is not comforting. I'll take my festering sores
one at a time if you please.

Well, our new volunteers arrive tomorrow. I'm off to work.

Love,
Will
