From will at himinbi.org  Mon Sep  6 23:22:06 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Thu Sep  9 14:15:33 2004
Subject: [rim] Exercise
Message-ID: <20040907042206.GA3109@trogdor.mr>

If, for some reason, you're not getting enough Will in your diet, I
have recently started a blog:

  http://www.livejournal.com/~ivankara/

This list is for interesting tidbits from Mauritania, primarily
anecdotal cultural stuff. The blog is whatever random flotsam happens
to wander through my head on a given day. I started it because my life
here is settling down. I'm running out of striking things to write
about. I'm trying to deepen my friendships and hopefully get to a new
level of that, but it hasn't happened yet.

Be warned though that when I'm blogging I write pretty much whatever
comes into my head, so you might learn things about my life that you
weren't especially looking to know. =)

One recent entry was on the subject of personal betterment and my
desire not to have WAIST completely destroy my body like it did last
year. WAIST isn't until next February, so there ought to be plenty of
time.

To this end I hauled my butt out of bed this morning at 6am and went
for perhaps the third run I've been on since I've been here. Even at
6am, an hour before the sun comes up, it is in the low 80's. So, it is
bearable, but a brisk refreshing run, it is not.

I jogged a couple miles out to stadium where I discovered I no longer
can do anything resembling a pull up. I managed, employing a flailing
imitation of vertical swimming, to get up one time, but I was too
embarrassed to try any more. So, I just hung there contemplating my
frailty. After walking around the stade a couple times and resting I
jogged back home.

Since I was nearly melted by the time I arrived back home I promptly
stripped down and took a cold shower. It was quite pleasant other than
the fact that my apartment had heated up enough that I was still
sweating when I got out.

I had about an hour before my French teacher was coming over to give
me an exam, so I made some tasty vermicelli with cinnamon and sugar,
and set to studying. By "studying," I mean "reading Wuthering Heights
until I fell asleep."

My professors knock on the door woke me and I quickly clothed myself
and let him in. He didn't have the exam made out yet. So, while he was
looking over my notes and writing it out, I was looking over his
shoulder and trying to remember how to conjugate the pass? simple.
(Which, in a highly questionable move, he taught me before covering
the conditional or subjunctive; that I could actually use; unlike the
pass? simple.)

As I was taking my test, I discovered the danger inherent in staying
up till 1am reading then going for a morning jog. It can cause one to
lose consciousness at random times. I had a couple times that I dozed
off in the middle of writing a sentence. Fortunately (or maybe
unfortunately), my French is such that it didn't really show as he was
grading my paper.

After he eventually left I flopped back down and slept for another
hour; blessed sleep.

Love,
Will
