From will at himinbi.org  Thu Jul  1 07:56:46 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Thu Jul  1 07:58:44 2004
Subject: [rim] Newbies
Message-ID: <20040701125646.GA3184@trogdor.mr>

We got our new group in the day before yesterday. It was really quite
a landmark for me because I could see all of their faces and remember
the me of a year ago standing around in wonderment. It really brings
into focus just how much and how little I am different now than I was
then.

I feel very much the Peace Corps volunteer now. I think that my travel
up to France helped to solidify some stuff that's been building for
the last year.

I had never really traveled outside of the South in the U.S., never
internationally and never alone. The last year in Mauritania has
helped me get a sense of how the world operates for a traveler and
then doing nearly a month on my own helped me prove to myself that I
could do it.

Sharon gave me a book of adventure stories in Paris and I've been
reading them. They've made me more seriously consider a proposition by
my mom to come back and head up to Alaska over land with my brother to
meet up with her. As much as one can intellectually know that they're
capable of something there is a level of surety that only comes
through doing. I understand much better the reasons that explorers
have for wandering the globe. I think it is as much to find themselves
as to find new places.

At the same time that I was proud of who I am becoming I felt sad
seeing the passing of time and just how quickly this first year has
passed.

This new group means that the group before me will be leaving in about
two months. That is sad too. We are in a very real way a family. I
know all of the volunteers. Even when our interests and outlooks are
completely different we are still thrown in this together. The only
other people who I have that sort of relationship with are my family.

It goes back to the aphorism, "you can pick your friends, but you
can't pick your family." If either of my brothers ever needed my help
in any way I would do whatever I could to provide it. Never mind that
in the "real" world Matt and I would probably never even have met
since our interests are so very different. He is my brother and
nothing can change that. We have the common bond of our childhood and
even though it wasn't always fun it isn't something that can be
forgotten.

In a very similar way, when a volunteer needs something I do my best
to help them. There are volunteers who I definitely would never have
been friends with in the States. There are people who I likely would
have chosen not to get to know even if I had the chance. Here though
we have the bond of going through the alienation, illness and trauma
of being a volunteer together and that is something that can't be
forgotten either.

So, I'm sad that many of my friends will be leaving in the coming
months. I'm glad to see new faces, but wish there was some way to hold
on to the old ones.

Love,
Will

P.S. I can walk again. My knee has been coming along remarkably well
given how nasty it looked initially. This is especially good since
I'll be in Senegal by tomorrow, Inshallah.
