From will at himinbi.org  Sat May 29 17:13:48 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Sat May 29 18:34:02 2004
Subject: [rim] 2004/05/29 - day three hundred fourty b
Message-ID: <20040529221348.GB4603@trogdor.mr>

Real quick I want to write about the two guys I've been hanging out
with lately: Diagana and Oumar. Both of them are second year English
students at the university and both have been looking to practice
their English.

It has been really good for me because I get to practice my French
quite a bit and I really do want to make some Mauritanian friends
while I'm here.

As a part of their second year they have an American and British
History class. I've been reviewing quite a bit of the Great Depression
and World War II explaining the stuff to Oumar. We had an interesting
moment when we were discussing Nazism and Fascism for a handout on
Totalitarianism. We were talking about the idea of the Aryan race and
that the Germans killed millions of Jews. He reacted with surprise
asking if the Nazis really were racist. As to the concentration camps
he had never heard of them.

I had this strange moment when I felt almost sad. Not sad at his
ignorance or anything condescending like that. Sad like if I knew one
of his parents had died and I had to be the one to tell him. I never
really thought about it before, but knowing the cruelty that we have
reached in war is an important part of understanding human nature. I
can never look at humanity as being to noble when I know that we have
looked at faces all to similar to our own and put them to death.

I didn't really go into the Holocaust that much other than to tell him
that there were in fact millions of Jews and others killed for no
reason other than not being Aryan.

*-*

They have both been helping me get ready for my trip because I had to
buy some stuff to show off a bit of Africa to my family. Buying stuff
is a real challenge here because there are no fixed prices. You
literally just have to know the price and bargain. I have bargained
for a can of Coke before.

For artsy touristy stuff it is orders of magnitude worse. Many people
hunting for this stuff not only don't know the prices, they either
don't know the value of the money or they have enough they don't care.
So, the prices usually start out doubled at least.

I took Oumar with me one day to help me bargain and we did alright.
Then I gave him a couple thousand to go off and buy what he could
find. The problem is that I have had difficulty convincing him that I
really only wanted Mauritanian stuff. I don't really need to show my
family the latest in Chinese baubles. So, I got a couple of
interesting things and mostly carnival looking stuff.

Diagana took me to his house and we got his sister and bought some
mulafas. I wanted to get a boubou to show everyone, but they cost to
much. Maybe when I leave I can get more complete outfits like caftans
and what-not.

Then he came by this evening and gave me a necklace for my mom and a
couple bracelets to send to Steph. I thought it was really thoughtful.
I had been telling him about having missed seeing my family and also
about regretting that Steph would not come see this country now that
we are broken up.

I really want to impress on them just how much I like their country.
Alot of Mauritanians will tell me stuff like "America is good;
Mauritania is bad" and I think they miss the value in this place
sometimes. It really does make me sad that probably no one I know will
see this place. After you get by the dirtiness it really is an
interesting place.

Anyhow, I just priced plane tickets online and Casablanca to Paris is
650 euro, which is 250 euro more than I have, so it looks like I'll be
going by land one way or another. =)

Love,
Will
