From will at himinbi.org  Fri Aug 20 06:40:09 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Fri Aug 20 05:23:33 2004
Subject: [rim] musculature
Message-ID: <4115.209.88.121.137.1093002009.squirrel@honors.tntech.edu>

Hello everyone. I apologize for not having written for almost two weeks.
I've been a little under the weather, but I feel like things may be starting
to pull up.

Giardia is a nasty little bug that takes up residence in a person's gut. I
wouldn't mind having houseguests except the giardias are not especially good
ones. Giardia are a culture of alcoholics. Imagine a frat boy on a weekend
bender. It?s like that except the whole lot of them all the time.

They are brutish little beasts and when they move in they immediately set to
work enslaving the other denizens, paramecium, e. coli and the like, to work
in their huge beer factories. Daunting places billowing clouds of sulphurus
fumes with lines of faceless workers marching continually in and out. These
are my first problem. As you can imagine, once they?ve produced it, this gas
has to leave their world (me) somehow and this has not been especially good
for my social life.

What I really dislike though is their resource management. The beer
production facilities produce unbelievable quantites of waste water. I?ve
gone from drinking around two liters of water a day to drinking five or
more, but I?ve still got the dry mouth and headache of dehydration nearly
all the time. As disturbing as the dehydration is, on par with it is how the
water leaves my body. They?ve got their factories situated right in front of
my colon and they just dump it all there. So rather than the normal kidney
route it leaves by a much more circutious and odiferous route.

The one upside of all their construction is that having my stomach full of
buildings has pretty much killed my appetite. I?m sort of like that mythic
biology professor who gave himself a tapeworm to loose weight, except
unintentional and much less appetizing. I have been dropping weight since,
in my everlasting wisdom, I?ve been suffering being inhabited for about the
last three weeks. I figured maybe I could just hang out and it would go
away. I?ve heard that you can develop some resistance to giardia and other
than dehydration it wasn?t likely to do me permanent damage. I?d almost
stick with it in hopes of it going away, but not eating (and shitting my
brains out) has me at the point where all I want to do is lie around my
house staring at the wall.

If they weren't so greedy and would but dump a bit of their beer supply into
my bloodstream they could easily keep me sufficiently pickled that I
wouldn't care about it. As I said though, they aren't especially good
houseguests.

I ddidn't move very much before I got sick. I don?t need to for my job and
exercising means getting out of bed at 5am when it is still a balmy 80
degrees (which I?ve not had the discipline to do). This means that other
than the little bits of muscle necessary to physically move, all the others
have atrophied. This bout of illness is doing a pretty good job of cutting
away my hitherto untouched fat deposits. I?ve been making good progress on
the ?skeletal? look I hear is much in vogue in Ethiopia right now.

To make matters worse I?ve been going through a bit of a funk emotionally.
I've mentioned that living here I am, for the first time in my life, "one of
the guys." I?m finding that being one of the guys has definite advantages; I
know how to play poker, I understand the dating game more, I?m more
comfortable with myself. One thing that lacks though is emotional intimacy.
Not that I?m not connected to these guys, just in a different way and
there?s just some part of my psyche that doesn?t get touched.

In some ways my lack of energy was good. I?m pretty sure the change in my
emotional stimulation has been depressing me slightly for a couple months,
but I wasn?t really seeing it. Not having much choice but to lie around and
feel it brought me to face it. I wasn?t especially quick to do so since it
isn?t something that?ll be fixed easily. It isn?t like I can just go join a
church or discussion group here.

I?ve got a plan though. Step one: drugs; not for the emotions, for the
giardia. Step two: gym; both work on the energy levels and the emaciation.
Step three: girls; like it or not, girls generally do better with the
emotions thing. I?m not willing to call it a genetic issue (me being a guy
and as emotionally aware as many girls), but so far as mores they definitely
get more liberty and training.

So, hopefully a week will see me giardia free, a month with a little deeper
relationships, and six months with some serious buffness going on.
