From will at himinbi.org  Thu Jul  8 08:00:03 2004
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Thu Jul  8 08:00:29 2004
Subject: [rim] Senegal
Message-ID: <62788.213.154.73.131.1089291603.squirrel@honors.tntech.edu>

Well, hopefully the internet will not die this time... I started to post an
update three days ago and the power went out. Since I've been out in the
bush.

Right now I'm in Kaolack, Senegal. Carl and I have been on a whirlwind tour
for the Fourth of July. In the last week:

I've been to a pig roast on the beach in Foundiougne. I learned that perhaps
the worst way to prepare a pig is to throw it into the coals and let it
singe for a while. This chars the outside while leaving the inside
completely raw. It surprised me honestly since though Senegalese, as
Muslims, can't eat pork, they cook goats and sheep just fine. I chalk it up
to a punishment for our hethan ways.

I've had a Senegalese fellow yell, "It's not safe. There are caimen in the
waters there," as I was stading neck deep an the inlet off Sokone. (A caiman
is a 9-12 foot long relative of the crocodile.) We continued on wary but
uneaten, thankfully.

I've been to Djinak (known as "pot island" because that is the primary cash
crop) and back by way of a pirogue through the mangrove swamp. Due to a bit
of shadyness on the part of our hosts we were dropped off at a bus stop
sized awning on an adjacent island and only allowed to sneak over after
dark. They were watching the resort for the owner and by "watching" I mean
sneaking people in and only giving him the money if caught. Our eight hours
at the bus stop was well spent though and I got to learn quite a bit about
Peace Corps Senegal in the game of Truth or Dare.

I've learned what baobab fruits and cashews look like when they fall off the
tree. I've also cracked both open and eaten them as fresh as they can be
found. Also in the eating front, I've been introduced to nyebe (bean paste)
sandwiches, fish ball shandwiches, cheerie (millet) couscous, carasel (which
looks like a spiky milkweed pod and tastes like papya) and mahd (which looks
like a wrinkly orange and whose sour seeds are eaten covered in pepper and
salt).

I've learned that having the widley divergent Maure and black African
cultures has made the learning of the neutral third language, French, much
more common in Mauritania than here in Senegal. I keep getting chastized for
not speaking any Wolof. Fortunately we've had volunteers to help us along
pretty much the whole time.

I've slept in a thatch hut and fought off the wide variety of distressingly
large insects that inhabit thatch huts. It gave me serious time to
contemplate the benefits and costs of city life.

The relationship that the volunteer we stayed with has with her Senegalese
family is really admirable. Watching her sitting arond shelling cashews and
chatting in S?r?re renewed my desires to make Mauritanian friends and learn
a language that sounds like gibberish to the Anglo-Saxon ear.

I learned of the three truly magical places in the world:
  1. Nyanmar (formerly Burmah)
  2. Dogon Country (Southern Mali and Northern Burkina Faso)
  3. Macchu Picchu, Peru

It is a goal to make it to those magical places.

Unrealized goals on this trip: (saved for future ones)
  1. Swim with dolphins
  2. Drink a frozen Pina Coloda under a palm tree on the beach

We are off to Saint Louis for the night. This trip has really worked out
well. I'm looking frward to coming back, which I'll have to do since I've
contracted a djimbe (drum) with my African name, Idrisa, carved into it and
I've got to pick it up eventually.

For a bit though I need to stay in Mauritania. My counterpart may be a bit
upset with me when I get back. I told him I was going to Ka?di to help with
a training. Unfortunately I didn't tell Carl I told him that and Carl told
him I was going to Senegal for a party. Oopsie. It shouldn't be a real big
deal; it's just that I've been gone for about six weeks now. I need to get
home and work a little harder at being a good volunteer.

Love,
Will
