From will at himinbi.org  Sat Jan  1 13:26:06 2005
From: will at himinbi.org (Will Holcomb)
Date: Tue Jan  4 10:49:25 2005
Subject: [rim] Vacating
Message-ID: <20050101192606.GA2464@trogdor.mr>

Well, I am back in town and since I don't think I've written anything
here in about a month and a half I figured I'd give it a go...

Life has been drearily mundane. Not boring mind you, I've had more
drama in the last month than in the previous eleven. It is love and
women stuff though. The same sorts of things that have been
confounding and depressing men since the dawn of time. Definitely not
the stuff that makes for a good journal entry.

I have just gotten back from Saint Louis where I was for New Years.
That was quite fun.

It is what we did as a group last year. A second year volunteer
organized it for us then and since I really enjoyed it, I did the
organizing this year. It is just bizarre to remember that guy who was
so nervous to be doing his first international travel. I was the old
hat this time. My passport's about a third full and all that's in
there is Morocco, Mauritania, France, Mali and about a half dozen
crosses into Senegal.

I did have a first this time though when we were crossing into
Senegal. Generally, being Peace Corps is a golden ticket. At police
stops or with customs, a quick "Corps de la Paix" will get a smile and
perhaps the story of a volunteer who lived in their village ten years
ago. On our way over though, our passports went to the police and
promptly disappeared. After about an hour and a half a rumor started
to circulate that if we could all pony up 1000cfa (about $2) they
would reappear.

I began discovering early in the trip that my fuse has grown
remarkably short in the last year. Before I got a chance to start
yelling at people, someone called up a gendarme (roughly like national
guard, but the military has a more active role in daily life here)
they knew and our passports magically reappeared. I was happy for
that. In the hour and a half we had been standing around we'd found a
guy with a bus and the lot of us headed on our way.

The Central African Franc is being rereleased. The 31st was the last
day to get rid of the old bills. We were crossing on the 30th, so we
needed to find a bank quick. Our unfortunate stay at the border
crossing unfortunately gave the bank in Rosso, where we crossed, time
to close. There were no banks until getting to Saint Louis and once we
got there they were closed. Getting our guy to stop was a bitch
though. He tried a renegotiation of the price because he had to stop
to check at the bank and eventually the whole thing fell apart and we
got out a couple miles from the hotel. This irritated me at the time
and really got to me when I later found out he'd overcharged us for
the ride.

We arrived eventually at our lovely beach-side residence. Thus began
several days of sunbathing, socializing and intoxication. I missed my
mark on New Years Eve. After a spectacular sunset over the ocean
accompanied by some similarly spectacular tequila sunrises, we roasted
sausages on a bonfire and played "never have I ever." I ran out of
orange juice and rather that walking back to the hotel to get
something suitable to drink, I just set in with tequila and grenadine.
Not sure how this combination would work in general, but at the time I
thought it tasted quite nice. This was the first of several
questionable decisions for the evening and about half an hour after
midnight I was fast asleep in the bar. Someone was kind enough to take
me home and dump me in a bed round about 3am. After they piled beer
bottles all over me and took some pictures, of course. That no one had
a felt tip pen was a godsend.

The disappointing thing is that was our only good night of dancing. We
tried for a jazz club after a day of recuperation, but the musicians
weren't playing that evening. We ended up back on the beach reliving
high school with some truth or dare and spin the bottle. A newly
acquired cold leaves me recognizing the dangers of that second game.
I'd never played before though, so I think it's worth it. I never
actually got my chest x-ray results back to verify I don't have
tuberculosis, so maybe this cough is completely unrelated to kissing
bunches of random people.

It was just a fun time all around. We nearly couldn't make it back
because of a transportation strike. After some finagling and paying
double the normal price, 4000cfa or $8 for the two hour ride, we made
it back home safely.

Love,
Will
