From wholcomb at gmail.com  Mon Jan 10 16:41:07 2005
From: wholcomb at gmail.com (Will Holcomb)
Date: Mon Jan 10 16:34:32 2005
Subject: [rim] Monnaie
Message-ID: <9e9da3a00501101441251acf4e@mail.gmail.com>

I've now worked out three times this week thereby matching my total
for the last three months. Not doing terribly well on the fitness
front. It is a Mauritanian tradition though to streak at WAIST and I
am nearly too old for such shenanigans. I figure this is one of my
last chances to participate in such an activity and not be too
terribly creepy.

The thought of having people see my now emaciated body nude is a
little daunting, thus the recent upswing in my workouts.

Having jogged a bit and lifted some weights at the stadium, I decided
to treat myself to some orange juice and bread. The OJ should be 400um
and the bread 100um, and so my daily food budget in the form of a
1000um (~$3) note ought to cover everything just fine.

This looks fine on paper. It did not work out especially well. The
problem goes back in part to banks...

The banks here are just glorified plaster pigs. More difficult to
break into, but all the earning of interest and investing and whatnot
that are hallmarks of the institutions you know of as banks, don't
exist here. The bank is mostly just there since it is more difficult
to break into than the average person's house.

A problem though is that most people here have a limited trust in all
large bureaucracies here. Given that 90% of the equipment that began
in my lab (and that I need to teach) has been appropriated by the
university over the last two years, I can relate. An upswing of this
limited trust is that some people don't use banks.

Since a million ouguiya is only about $3500, our largest denomination
of bill is 1000um and we have no credit cards; that means that when
buying a car or a house there are literally suitcases of money
involved. Rumors are that in some of the houses in Tavargh Zeina there
are rooms full of money. Having quantities of cash out of circulation
like this is a drag on an economy where almost all of the money supply
is cash. The process operates by economics magic that I don't
understand, but apparently it can be a serious problem.

All of our money is currently being rereleased in an effort to scare
some of this money out of hiding as well as removing one of the major
disease vectors. (Have you ever gotten a dollar bill held together
with a band-aid? In this land of few office supplies, but much
ingenuity; I have one in my wallet right now.)

So, to come back to the point... For whatever reason they haven't been
releasing 500um notes in any appreciable quantity. So, I went into the
store to get me some OJ. "Sorry, they say to me, no change."
"Alright," I think, "I'll just try next door." Same result. There
aren't very many places I can get juice, so this is distressing. I
figure I'll go buy my bread and with the change come back and get some
juice. At the bakery? No change. Dammit.

So, no bread, no juice. I'm fortunate my 1000um bill is newly minted,
hopefully it won't make me ill when I am forced to eat it, since I
apparently can't spend it.

Love,
Will
