From wholcomb at gmail.com  Mon Jan 10 19:08:24 2005
From: wholcomb at gmail.com (Will Holcomb)
Date: Mon Jan 10 19:01:50 2005
Subject: [rim] Oumar
Message-ID: <9e9da3a005011017082c316a88@mail.gmail.com>

Oumar has decided to drop out of college. His family wants him to get
a job and start a family and all that jazz. It is sort of fair since
he's 30 and all.

I was amazed to learn this. Of you'd have asked me to guess his age I
would have guessed 21 or 22. Once he told me though I could see it. He
is just thin and a little awkward. It was just because he is a junior
in college and I never asked that I assumed he was young.

I asked him what exactly he'd done to get so old and it turns out he
didn't graduate from high school until he was 22. This is not terribly
odd. Passing in high school is a function of social standing in the
community and class sizes as it is a student's actual academic
prowess. Average age for high school is somewhere in the early 20's
and to make it out at all is something of an accomplishment.

Then though he took three years off. I asked him if he had gotten a
job and he said no. Apparently he broke his foot and it took three
years to get back up to snuff. After this he tried law school for a
year, but you have to go abroad to complete your education and his
family doesn't have the money. So then he switched to English and is
in his third year now.

His English isn't bad. Were I to guess, I'd put it as a little better
than my French. Our vocabularies seem similar, but I still mangle my
articles something fierce and he generally gets his right. As to what
marketable skill his English will give him though is beyond me. From
talking to him that seems to be most of what he can do; speak English,
sorta. Perhaps it is just that I've been doing it so long that it
doesn't impress me. My mom was an English major, and she already spoke
the language, so I oughtn't speak too harshly about those choosing
that pursuit.

He has been coming to see me in the hopes that I can use my amazing
American opulence to find him a job. I've helped him write up a r?sum?
and I'll give it to the Peace Corps. Other than this I'm not quite
sure what he expects.

We've been playing some sort of game I think. Pulaar culture has rules
about giving gifts. For instance when he was telling me about his
decision to quit school he told me that his friends would visit his
parents they would give them a couple hundred ouguiya. This is a
statement that he should start earning money so that he can start
going to their parents and repaying them. He left a walkman at my
house a while back with some cassettes. Then he gave me a necklace to
take to my mom and then borrowed my travel dictionary. There is just
something in when he talks about these things that makes me feel like
there is something going on I don't understand.

I'm mostly not worrying about it. It may belie a lack cultural
sensitivity, but I figure Oumar should have noticed I'm not Pulaar. I
feel like I'm putting enough into our relationship as it is.

I get irritated sometimes because he is aware of the differences in
our class mobilities, and he wears it on his sleeve. I feel guilty
enough about being a college educated citizen of a first world
country. When he points it out, all I am left with is a helplessness
knowing that it is extremely unfair and I'm on the lucky end. I get
more guilty and then I get a bit angry because the guilt is something
that I can't do anything about.

So, anyhow, I'm here in the bureau to print off the r?sum? I helped
him write. I had him email it to me after he did it. Well, I told him
to at least. I should have told him to attach it to the email.
Hopefully we saved a copy on the computer.

Love,
Will
