From: TTU::DMB1153      "Danyel M Bruggink"  8-APR-1999 16:11:25.74
To:   JRNL
CC:   DMB1153
Subj: j: response to rumi poem, where I am with mentor

Yesterday at dawn, my Friend said, How long
will this unconsciousness go on?

You fill yourself with the sharp pain of Love,
rather than its fulfillment.

I said, "But I can't get to You!
You are the whole dark night,
and I am a single candle.

My life is upsidedown
because of You!"

The Friend replied, I am your deepest being.
Quit talking about wanting Me!

I said, "Then what is this
restlessness?"

The Friend, Does a drop
stay still in the Ocean?

Move with Entirety
and with the tiniest particular.

Be the moisture in an oyster
that helps to form one pearl.

- Rumi
- translated by Coleman Barks
- from Like This

-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

I was flipping through a Rumi book the other day and ran into this.
It really struck me as something, well just plain cool.  =)

The end is what struck me.  It reminded me in a lot of ways as the
"if you can't be fed, be bread" statement.  I've been rebelling
against that statement these days because there is something in that
that feels dissonant to where I am now.  Which I think falls more into
the lack of autonomy I feel in it, the ability to support yourself in
ways.  I like this statement at the end though

Does a drop stay still in the Ocean?
Move with Entirety and with the tiniest particular.
Be the moisture in an oyster that helps to form one pearl.

I think it says more clearly what I think the gist of the be bread
statement is.  Be something bigger than you and be yourself completly.
The move with Entirety and with the tiniest particular line is awesome
for me.  To be in the universe in that manner is just a wow kind of
concept for me.  Make something beautiful with your life.  You may
just be a drop in the ocean, but you can make a pearl.  I have to
accept myself for who I am first and love me and be me.  Then I can
step out and love the world with my whole heart.

Connie's been asking me to write about what I get out of mentor and
right now I think this is what I want out of mentor.  It is the place
where I learned this.  It is the place where I can continue to
challenge what I believe and what I do in a relatively safe manner.
There are people that support me and people that love me.  And that's
valuable to me.  But mostly these days it is a place where I can
provide support and love others and support other people.  I value
that.  The concepts that are there to teach people growth I see as
valuable structures even if I don't always agree with the way ti is
run.

I am still unsure of so many things.  But I've changed and grown so
much.  Learning that I am a single candle but my life doesn't have to
be turned upsidedown.  I just need to live it.  To be a part of this
life, to love, and let myself be loved.

Right now that is my place in mentor.  At least that is my learning
place in mentor.  To let other people support me and care for me.  To
stop closing myself off from them.  It is also to let other peple tear
me down and let that pass and still be ok with who I am.  It is to be
a part of the process rather than try to make it go someway in
particular that I deem it should.  To be a servant when it is best for
me to be a servant and to be served when it is best for me to be
served.  Washing dishes and doing little things at Easter dinner was
valuable to me.  I was doing it for me which is one of the reasons it
was neat.  Not because I felt obligated but because I wanted to give
that gift to people.

I wondered when Wayne stopped Melissa from serving the chickpeas if
that was necessary.  I knew she had been doing a lot of serving in the
kitchen but in a way that was more public and selfishly I wish she
could have done that because I would have liked to thank her when she
offered me mine.  Of course why couldn't I have thanked her before or
since.  Thank you, Melissa.  You are appreciated and loved.

I think what most of this is saying for me about service that I'm only
starting to grasp.  For me, I have to be solid in myself before I can
really start serving other people.  But then I don't think I could
have learned about me had I not been serving other people before I
figured out more about myself.

Thanks for reading.
Love.
Danyel
