From: IN%"skumar@cookeville.total-web.net"  "sabrina kumar"  7-DEC-1999 15:14:23.05
To:   IN%"skumar@cookeville.total-web.net"  "sabrina kumar",
IN%"pozzo@upper-cumberland.net"  "annie crabtree",
IN%"eisenmenger@multipro.com"  "carol eisenmenger",
IN%"cbush5@bellsouth.net"  "catherine bush", IN%"aluvsc@aol.com"  "cheryl
hirschman"
CC:
Subj: Quotes from TO WRESTLE WITH DEMONS



"Unlike medications, ECT is not profitable to industry. If it were,
there might be a flurry of industry-supported research to document its
effectiveness and reduce its stigma. Psychiatrists would get the same
hard-sell educational materials on ECT as we do on antidepressants.
Maybe even some pens, pads of paper and briefcases with little
lightening bolts or something, just like the ones we get with drug
logos. But it's the power company that is paid for the electrical
current, not a pharmaceutical manufacturer."
from TO WRESTLE WITH DEMONS by Keith Ablow



In a real dark night of the soul it is always three o'clock in the
morning.

            F Scott Fitzgerald "The Crack-up"

Maybe we all have in us a secret pond where evil and ugly things
germinate and grow strong. But this culture is fenced, and the swimming
brood climbs up only to fall back. Might it not be that in the dark
pools of some men the evil grows strong enough to wriggle over the fence
and swim free? Would not such a man be our monster, and are we not
related to him in our hidden water? It would be absurd if we did not
understand both angels and devils, since we invented them." John
Steinbeck, EAST OF EDEN



This patient had suffered terribly for decades. After his illness began,
he couldn't work. He found it extremely difficult to form or sustain any
relationship. He felt completely empty and alone and spent most of his
time in the hospital. Sometimes I think he's better off now, although
some of my colleagues might regard my saying so as heretical, a
premature and unwarranted admission ofdefeat. Physicians find it easier
to see relief in death when the pain is physical and the organism is
visibly decaying. We are much more reluctant to acknowldge that
emotional pain and loss of life spirit can become unbearable. The most
obvious reason is that few of us have a clear idea how it feels to
suffer with illnesses like schizophrenia or major depression. I have
heard psychosis described as being a passenger on a plane perpetually
about to crash, but i can't quite imagine it.  Accepting that emotional
pain can become intolerable means risking a precedent.  How much pain
would be considered sufficient justification for suicide?"

from TO WRESTLE WITH DEMONS by Keith Ablow



"Ever since the Prozac, I don't feel things the way I used to. I can
talk about being abused when I was a kid, and it's just an everyday
discussion. It might as well have happened to someone else."

"You are less depressed, though... Right?" I asked.

He pondered the question. "I am less depressed," he said, shrugging his
shoulders. "I've got the same problems, but they're buried."

I have heard similar descriptions from other patients. They feel less
sad after receiving Prozac but complain that real contentment remains
elusive and that the road to achieving it seems blocked.

DEMONS



