Understand well your self.
  When you shall know your self,
  Then you shall be able to recognise the world.
  And if you will recognise the soul,
  Then you shall recognise the world hereafter.
  (Sharafuddin Bu Ali Qalandar)

  ... the totality of our being is not only the part which we at present call
  our person, for this totality also includes another person, a transcendent
  counterpart which remains invisible to us, what Ibn `Arabi designates as our
  "eternal individuality"
  (Quotations from Abu Bakr Muhammad ibn al-`Arabi)

We are separated from the mystery, the depth, the greatness of
our existence. We hear the voice of that depth, but our ears are closed.
--Paul Tillich

Life is a pure flame, and we live by an invisible Sun within us.
-- Thomas Browne

Wisdom ceases to be wisdom when it becomes too proud to weep,
too grave to laugh, and too selfful to seek other than itself.
--Kahlil Gibran

Every perfection in this life has some imperfection attached to it,
and there is no knowledge in this world that is not mixed with some
blindness or ignorance.
--Thomas a Kempis

The teacher is like the candle which lights others in consuming itself.
--Giovanni Ruffini (1807-1881)

When an error is made, the stupid blame, the conventional cluck,
and the awake learn. --Alan Harris

The more efficient a force is, the more silent and the more subtle it is.
Love is the subtlest force in the world.
--Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi

I hear and I forget.
I see and I believe.
I do and I understand.
--Confucius

Wisdom is not in words. Wisdom is meaning within words.
--Khalil Gibran

The self-controlled soul, who moves amongst sense objects,
free from either attachment or repulsion, he wins eternal Peace.
-- Bhagavad Gita

One does not become enlightened by imagining figures of light,
but by making the darkness conscious.
--C.G. Jung

Let a man strive to purify his thoughts. What a man thinketh,
that is he; this is the eternal mystery. Dwelling within himself with
thoughts serene, he will obtain imperishable happiness.
--Upanishads

Wise men talk because they have something to say; fools,
because they have to say something.
--Plato

Faith is an oasis in the heart which will never be reached
by the caravan of thinking.
-- Kahlil Gibran

If you don't know where you're going, when you get there you'll be lost.
--Yogi Berra

He who does not see the angels and devils in the beauty and malice of life
will be far removed from knowledge, and his spirit will be empty of affection.
--Kahlil Gibran

He who knows the precepts by heart,
but fails to practice them,
Is like unto one who lights a lamp
and then shuts his eyes.
--Nagarjuna

The intelligent man who is proud of his intelligence is like the
condemned man who is proud of his large cell.
--Simone Weil

Your vision will become clear
only when you look into your heart ...
Who looks outside, dreams.
Who looks inside, awakens.
~ Carl Jung

The more faithfully you listen to the voice within you,
the better you hear what is sounding outside of you.
--Dag Hammarskjold

People travel to wonder at the height of the mountains,
at the huge waves of the seas, at the long course of the rivers,
at the vast compass of the ocean, at the circular motion of the stars,
and yet they pass by themselves without wondering.
--St. Augustine of Hippo

All Spiritual being is in man. A wise old proverb says, "God comes
to see us without bell," that is, as there is no screen or ceiling between
our heads and the infinite heavens, so is there no bar or wall in the soul
where man, the effect, ceases, and God, the cause, begins.
--Ralph Waldo Emerson

Our minds are like crows. They pick up everything that glitters,
no matter how uncomfortable our nests get with all that metal in them.
--Thomas Merton

The only real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new
landscapes but in having new eyes.
--Marcel Proust

It has pleased God that divine verities should not enter the heart through
the understanding, but the understanding through the heart.
--Blaise Pascal

Life can only be understood backwards It must be lived forwards.
--Soren Kierkegaard

It is not what we do that makes us holy, but we ought to make holy
what we do.
--Meister Eckhart


