Adapted from "Deep Play," copyright 1999 by Diane Ackerman, published by
Random House.

What would life be without play?  Play is fun, freedom, a way to
socialize, our reward after hard work.  When we play at something, we
enjoy it for its own sake.  It's a refuge from ordinary life where one is
exempt from the usual obligations, customs, and rules.  Play is our
brain's favorite way of learning.  We usually think of play as
self-indulgent and irresponsible, and so we don't notice that play governs
most of society.  "Stop playing around, be serious!" someone might demand,
as if the two clashed.  But every element of the human saga requires play.

We evolved through play.  Our culture thrives on play.  Courtship includes
high theater, rituals, and ceremonies of play.  Ideas are playful
reverbrations of the mind.  Language is playing with words until they can
impersonate physical objects and abstract ideas.  We ignore the playful
origins of words when we utter them; conversation would grind to a halt if
we visualized flamingos every time someone referred to a "flight" of
stairs.  But most of our everyday words were invented through play.

Play can be simple, elaborate, crude, sophisticated, violent or casual.
But there is a special caliber of play, akin to rapture and ecstasy, that
humans relish- even require- in order to feel whole.  We spend our lives
in pursuit of moments that will allow these altered states to happen.  I
call this state "deep play."  Swept up by it, one feels balanced,
creative, focused, at peace with oneself and the world.  More than
anything, our passion for deep play has made us into the puzzling and
resplendent beings we are.

When one enters deep play, only the present moment matters: one's history
and future vanish.  More simply, one doesn't remember one's past, needs,
expectations, worries, real or imaginary sins.  It is fresh, wholly
absorbing and full of its own unique wisdom and demands.  During deep
play, one may feel invincible, immortal, an ideal version of oneself.

I often find deep play in gardening, cycling or cross-country skiing.
Actually, it can occur in many moments of my day.  I can become easily
enchanted by nature's wonders, decoyed away from worry by a fresh
adventure, physical or mental.

The sacred playground of deep play may be as grand as the Grand Canyon, as
fluid as the ocean where dolphins swim, as crowded as a jazz club or even
as invisible as a cyber-church on the Internet.  Its extreme versions may
include death-defying feats during which one tends to feel remarkably
tranquil.  "You feel a calmness," the motorcycle racer Malcolm Smith
reports, "even though you know intellectually that you're on the brink of
disaster."  Challenge, discovery, exploration, novelty, pushing one's
limits, losing one's self in the activity- all elements of deep play- occur
for Smith when he races.

Where can one find deep play?  Just as there are many paths up a mountain,
there are many routes to deep play, from jogging to stamp collecting to
gospel singing.  If you have five past times you enjoy, go deeply into one
instead of shallowly into five.  Surrender yourself to its tiniest
details, fall in love with it, allow it temporarily to become the most
important thing in your life or the history of the planet.  Empty your
mind and seize the moment.  When I go biking, I repeat a mantra of the
day's sensations: bright sun, blue sky, warm breeze, blue jay's call, ice
melting and so on.  This helps me transcend the traffic, ignore the
clamorings of work, leave all the mind theaters behind and focus on nature
instead.  Sometimes I try to sing the birds on the telephone wires (who
look like notes on a musical staff).  I still must abide by the rules of
the road, of biking, of gravity.  But I am mentally far, far away from
civilization.  The world is breaking someone else's heart.

During deep play, one enters into an alternate reality with its own rules,
values, and expectations.  One sheds much of one's culture, with its
technical and moral demands, as one draws on a new and sense-ravishing way
of life.  That's why we long for these rare moments.  Then, we can lay
aside our sense of self, shed time's continuum, ignore pain in the
absolute present and watch the world's ordinary miracles.  No mind or
heart hobbles.  No analyzing or explaining.  No questing for logic.  No
promises.  No goals.  No relationships.  No worry.  One is completely open
to whatever drama may unfold.  With innocent surprise, one regards life's
spectacles and underpinnings.  All one feels is affectionate curiosity for
the whole bustling enterprise of creation.  When it happens, we
experience a sense of revelation and gratitude.  Nothing need be thought
or said.  It is a way of beholding, which is a form of prayer.
